Jackie Welles was a merc from Heywood who teamed up with V to become legends of Night City. He is one of V's early points of contact as well as the player's partner during several missions. He valued friendship, loyalty, and family above all else. Eventually he would plan to provide for his own family and live in luxury, but he got impatient because this was still just an elusive dream.

2047 - 2060s When he was a child, his father would get drunk and beat him and his mother mercilessly with his belt, but when Jackie became strong enough, he returned the favor and hospitalized him, and threated to kill the old man if he returned home. His father left and was never seen again. Jackie kept his father's belt and planned to use it on him if he ever returned.

Jackie grew up in the same streets with Misty Olszewski and the two saw each other a lot, though they never got together. At the age of fifteen Jackie first got on a bike, and since then he has been tinkering with any that he could get his hands on.

Early on, Jackie joined the Valentinos along with Gustavo Orta, quickly becoming both friends. However, a near-fatal incident from getting shot in a firefight during a gang war with the Maelstrom convinced Jackie to leave the gang for the sake of his mother when he was 19, but he stayed on good terms with the gang and Padre.[4]

2076 In 2076, Jackie began dating Misty. Jackie's mother disapproved of Misty and preferred his ex-girlfriend, Camilla, but Jackie continued to see Misty and even attempted to understand her spiritualism by making a mandala in his garage.[4]

Misty Olszewski is a new age spiritualist and the owner of Misty's Esoterica, a store located in Urmland Street, Watson. She is a good friend of Viktor Vektor and V, and the girlfriend of Jackie Welles.

Although she has family in Warsaw, Misty grew up in Night City's Heywood district, and was a childhood friend of Jackie Welles.[2][1] When she was a young adult, Misty opened her own shop on Urmland Street in Littla China, Watson - called Misty's Esoterica.

At some point she was approached by ripperdoc Viktor Vektor, whom rented a basement she owned, behind her shop, to use as a clinic. Since then both became close friends. Not long after, Misty regained contact with Jackie, and in 2076 they entered into a relationship, however Jackie's mother was not supportive of the relationship, preferring a previous girlfriend of Jackie's.

In late 2076, Jackie introduced V to Misty and Viktor, who then became friends.

While Viktor is a healer of bullet and blade wounds, Misty is a mender of broken spirits. Misty's Esoterica, a small shop in front of a ripperdoc clinic, is stocked with an assortment of aura-cleansing incense sticks, yarrow stems, Tibetan "Book of the Dead" shards and pendants for good luck. Though Misty gets more costumers than Viktor, this smart and sensitive woman somehow always finds the time to help her friend in difficult moments - at times almost taking on the role of a full-fledged nurse.

Jackie encounters V while attempting to steal a luxury car. They are arrested, however, by an old NCPD acquaintance of Jackie, inspector Henry Stints. The car's owner appears and orders Stints to kill them. The inspector then orders his men to knock them out, and decides to toss them on a back alley; bruised but alive. Afterwards Jackie introduces himself to V, stating he has seen them a few times in El Coyote Cojo. Then Jackie invites V to a breakfast, eventually offering them to stay in his apartment until they have enough money.

A proud son of Heywood and an even prouder son of Mama Welles. Jackie's stubborn - when he wants something, he won't stop (or shut up about it) until he gets his hands on it. Jackie always wanted a lot out of life - maybe too much.

As a teenager, he joined the Valentinos gang, but realizing how much he was capable of - he quit. For years he hustled through the unforgiving world of merckwork, because you need more than a go-getter attitude to sit at the big boys' table - you need street cred. Jackie's life goal has always been to become a legend at the Afterlife and make a heap of eddies along the way.

Camila Martinez is a member of the Valentinos, a gang fixated on camaraderie and Chicano culture.

V, an alias for Vincent is a mercenary. V grew up in the Heywood District of Night City, raised by the gangs. Though they initially left for Atlanta two years ago, they returned to Night City after realizing it was not going to work out.
Whilst recovering from a fight in El Coyote Cojo, V agreed to help the bartender, Pepe Najarro, settle a debt with a fixer by the name of Kirk Sawyer. In exchange for paying the debt, Kirk sent V to steal a Rayfield Aerondight from a corpo agent. After receiving a lift from their old friend Padre, V proceeded with the job.
As they managed to enter and start the car, V was stopped by Jackie Welles, who was also attempting to steal the vehicle. However, they were quickly surrounded by the NCPD, led by officer Henry Stints, and were arrested. Though ordered to be executed by the vehicle's owner - Kaoru Fujioka - they were instead knocked out and left bloodied in an alleyway of Heywood. After the ordeal, V and Jackie were properly introduced, the latter revealing that Kirk's threats were actually empty. When he invited them for a meal, V hesitantly accepted, leading to their friendship.

V stayed with Jackie for six months, doing mercenary jobs together while improving their street cred. Eventually, V managed to save enough money to rent an apartment of their own in Megabuilding H10.

Sandra Dorsett is a corporate netrunner and employee of Night Corp.Around April 2077, Sandra was captured by Scavengers; her Biomonitor muted by a jammer chip forced into her neuroport. With the chip in place, Trauma Team could not respond to her condition. Jackie Welles, T-Bug, and V infiltrated the scavenger base to find her floating in an ice-filled tub. As V removed the chip and Sandra from the tub, she entered cardiac arrest, which V alleviated with an airhypo. Trauma Team quickly arrived in 3 minutes and took custody of Sandra from V and Jackie from the balcony of the Scavs' apartment.

Sandra Dorsett made a full recovery and returned to work at Night Corp.

Viktor Vektor, or Vik for short, is a ripperdoc in Cyberpunk 2077. His clinic is located behind Misty's store in Little China, Watson. Talented, patient, and professional, Viktor has extended V's credit on a number of occasions, but never complains. Viktor was once a heavyweight boxer in Watson, competing in the Watson Boxing Grand Prix, but eventually came in 2nd place in the finals.[2] He left that life behind, and has come to prefer the relatively straightforward life of a back-alley ripperdoc. He continues to watch boxing matches avidly. His shop sees a steady amount of traffic thanks to a local fixer who insists on outfitting her mercs with the latest implants. He comes to know V and Jackie Welles well over the first six months of their career as mercs.

