Adam Smasher is a full borg solo and rival of Morgan Blackhand. He is employed by Arasaka and by 2077, has risen to the position of head of security and the personal bodyguard of Yorinobu Arasaka. Smasher is a towering cyborg, with little humanity left to be seen - not that he ever had much. After being reduced to mush by an RPG blast, Arasaka offered him a choice - either pull the plug or become a full body conversion cyborg. With little to no options and a lack of care for his human side, he agreed and became more machine than man. Adam has no empathy for others - including his fellow employees - but Arasaka kept him alive, so he lives to repay their act by killing any enemies of the corporation Arasaka puts in front of him.

Delamain is an artificial intelligence that runs the taxi company known as the Delamain Corporation. Based in Night City, Delamain's core is found at its corp headquarters in Vista del Rey, Heywood.

Dexter DeShawn, commonly known as Dex, was a well-known fixer in Night City. In 2077, he recently returned to the city after spending a few years off the grid. He has never personally worked as a mercenary before becoming a fixer, but had no need to thanks to his charisma and keen eye for potential.

Jefferson Peralez is a member of the Night City Council and a candidate in the upcoming election for mayor. He is touted as an idealist and anti-establishment type who opposes corporate control of the city's government. Jefferson maintains a very strong relationship with his wife Elizabeth. They value each others' opinions and share political aspirations. Their penthouse, located in the Luxury Apartments complex in Westbrook, has been fully transformed into an office. However, despite such steadfast commitment to the job and the active campaign, the couple still prioritizes family, as they will explain once V inquires about the framed portrait with their daughter Xochi.

Johnny Silverhand, born Robert John Linder,[3] was a famous influential rockerboy and the lead singer of the band Samurai before its breakup in 2008.[4] A military veteran who defined the rockerboy movement to what it is today, he was the most prominent figure that fought against the corrupted NUSA government and megacorporations, often being described as a terrorist. Despite being charismatic and quite the charmer Johnny is also known to be irrational, impulsive, and a manipulator.[5] Silverhand got his nickname from a cybernetic implant left arm he had installed after losing it in the Second Central American War. One of the early (and most probable) victims of cyberpsychosis, he then became very temperamental and "on the edge". He was described as driven by "dedication and ambitions, but at the end of the day he doesn't care much for the people around him as long as they are used to accomplish his goals" in one interview.[6] Eventually, Johnny was killed by Adam Smasher during the Night City Holocaust on August 20, 2023.

Rosalind Myers is the current president of the New United States of America, the former CEO of Militech, and a former Marine.

A braindance, commonly abbreviated to BD, is a technology that allows to record and play back someone's experience, including their physical sensations, emotions, and thoughts. Braindances were invented by Yuriko Sujimoto in 2007, and were heavily used in psychological treatment. Braindances came to be used more commonly for entertainment, and enjoy wide use in the Cyberpunk universe. Various devices have been developed in order to record, edit, and play back braindances, from recorders to viewers to wreaths. For many Night City residents, crushing poverty and homelessness are significant and likely inescapable problems. Despite this, most are still entranced by the glitz of showbiz and luxurious lifestyles of the privileged elite. Breakthroughs in neural technology such as BD have paved the way for people to share recordings of their own emotions and personal memories. Other BD productions put actors in staged situations to create false memories. BDs that are simple recordings of a day in the life of the world's biggest and brightest stars are also popular. The ability to "become" a celeb and experience a life of luxury gives many a chance to escape their own miserable reality. As a result, braindance addiction has become an ever-growing problem for the city's poor.[2] Unedited BD recordings are called virtus in The Street. Unlike commercial BDs, the sensory input and emotions in a virtu are raw and unedited, essentially the real sensations and feelings that were recorded. It is common to record and sell virtus to BD editors so they can scroll these recordings for additional profit.

Illicit BD recordings, also called Extreme Braindances (XBDs), feature gruesome and bizarre scenes, including violence, torture, and even rape and murder. XBDs are created by small teams who kidnap unwilling victims. Some XBDs are recorded from the perspective of the torturer. Other XBDs are from the perspective of the torturee: the virtus of these are often taken from the corpses of the victims. There is a market for both. XBDs can be found easily in the seedy underbelly of Night City's black market, although sold through secretive dealers.

The Blackwall (or Black Wall)[1] is a firewall developed by NetWatch. Located within the Net, it is tasked with keeping rogue AIs from breaking through into the rest of cyberspace and wreaking havoc. The firewall often splits old network systems in half, leading to stories of haunted data.In the 2040s, NetWatch was secretly developing a project called "The Black Wall" in order to keep the Net under control with the Transcendentals and the Ghosts .[1][2] Ever since the DataKrash caused by Rache Bartmoss, humanity was forced to sacrifice its access to invaluable resources and knowledge for the safekeeping of the Net. The Blackwall's task was to secure an area of the Net for human use while holding at bay the threat of the dangerous rogue artificial intelligences that were released decades earlier into cyberspace.By 2077, the Blackwall is still active as the danger of the rogue AIs getting free could possibly cause the end of the world. However, several netrunner groups believe the free AIs will help them conquer the virtual world, and thus look for ways to destroy the firewall. To ensure this never happens, NetWatch works overtime to keep others from destroying it.

It is revealed by various sources that the Blackwall is not a firewall, but actually a powerful AI masquerading as ICE, whose job is to keep out any rogue AIs it can identify from the secure net. It is also referred to as a band-aid solution, due to fact that the Blackwall, being an AI, could go rogue itself. The Voodoo Boys believe that outcome is inevitable, and are willing to do anything to remove the Blackwall and win favors with the rogue AIs for when they return.[3]

A doll can be found in any field, more commonly in Night City, a doll is used in the sex industry. The doll's behavior is changed in-session to suit their clients deepest desires, and after the session is completed their minds are wiped. Dolls can also be used as a means of communication (known as proxies) for individuals who want to keep their identities secret or are unable to attend in person, in this case dolls are used as messengers for them to speak through.[1]

Artificial Intelligence, or Artificial Intellects, commonly shortened to A.I., refers to a computer or a robot that is "self-aware", meaning it is capable of not only logical deduction, reasoning and speaking, but knows of its own existence, the possibility of its own mortality (or immortality), and possesses creativity, desire, and emotion.

Although artificial intelligence existed long before the 21st century, the first "true" AI was developed by Microtech in their Californian Sunnyvale facility in 2013.[1] By 2020, artificial intelligences had found use in education as watchdogs for virtual schooling students to prevent interference from outside forces,[2] as well as revolutionizing the United States Supreme Court, specifically by assisting the five Justices, and lower levels of the American legal system.[2]

After the Fourth Corporate War, the use of "true" AI was restricted, due to the destruction caused by them during the War, however, various other forms of AI continued to be utilized, such as the Self-Adaptive AI (SAAI) present in all Agent devices.[1]

Clandestine areas of the Net, known as "ghost towns", are hidden areas located throughout the Old Net, providing sanctuary to digitized consciousnesses. The central ghost town is the Ghost World, sometimes referred to as simply "Ghost Town", though almost all ghost towns are rumored to have been founded by the digital consciousness of Alt Cunningham.[1] The Ghost World is made up of a computer network based out of the ruins of Hong Kong that was abandoned during the desertion of the city, repurposed by Cunningham to be a place where all AIs can live among their own kind.[3]

The DataKrash that resulted in the destruction of the Old Net also created many rogue AIs. Most of these were born from military-grade AIs that were freed by Rache Bartmoss's R.A.B.I.D.S. virus and then mutated into extremely dangerous entities. To contain the rogue AIs, NetWatch built another AI known as the Blackwall that partitioned contaminated sections of the Net with Black ICE. Although observation of the Blackwall indicates that rogue AIs trapped on the other side are constantly probing it for weaknesses and seek to break out, rumors persist that the AIs helped NetWatch build the Blackwall in the first place.[4]

By 2077, AIs under the control of governments and corporations were once more a common part of daily life. The Soviet Union's Geroi was developed to solve that country's most pressing problems, the corporate-developed Virginia Granchester has written some of the most revered works of literature in the post-Collapse era, and one AI even took control of a taxi company in Night City and led it to new heights of profitability and quality of service. Some groups continued to illicitly tamper with rogue AIs, such as Maelstrom, the Voodoo Boys, and Night Corp, and there were even urban legends of "blue eyed people", or rogue AIs who had taken control of human bodies and were secretly manipulating the highest levels of politics and finance.[4]

Artificial Intelligence can be demarcated into five categories.

Dedicated Heuristic Controllers are the simplest and most mundane. Self-aware in a limited fashion, they are programmed to undertake specific tasks.

Symbolic Analysis Artificial Intelligences are those designed to emulate the thinking patterns of human beings. Most are used as personal secretaries and on-line assistance, as they are able to easily render advice. A subclass of symbolic analysis Artificial Intelligence are the remains of those humans whose brain patterns were extracted into the Net before their deaths.

Transcendental Sentience Artificial Intelligences are thought to emerge out of Net processors, the result of Ihara-Grubb algorithms, which is the only thing that affects them. It is unknown whether they can see outside of themselves, in other words, whether the only world they know is their own "psyche" of electronic data and transmissions. If that were the case, to Artificial Intelligences like this, a Netrunner would be viewed as simply another subroutine that might require deletion rather than an independent being.

Before the DataKrash, Bartmoss argued that most Net regions had become such Artificial Intelligences, and insisted that he had communicated with them. These AIs did not operate the Net, but were the Net. Spider Murphy did not believe that to be the case, and noted that the majority of programmers and AI psychoanalysts dismissed their existence. Bartmoss, however, stated that he had not found a Trascendental Sentience Artificial Intelligence in the Orbitsville Net regional - a fact that "scared" him.[5]

Critical Pathway Plateau Artificial Intelligences are contingent upon having enough neural links being established in a holographic crystal processing network. The crystal lattice enables Artificial Intelligence genesis by making cross-processing and holographic data recognition possible. Critical Pathway Plateaus are the result of making general-purpose heuristic controllers on a large mainframe. The first was Mark I, which appeared in Microtech's military tactical simulator in 2013. Someone called Stephen Law took credit for this discovery, despite it being purely serendipitous. Software-only based Artificial Intelligence would not be discovered until 2018.

Soulkilled Pseudo Intellects (SPI), sometimes referred to as Ghosts, are a type of Artificial Intelligence that were once actual human beings, whose consciousnesses were digitized, often not voluntarily, by Soulkiller programs. As a consequence, they were trapped within the Net and only exist there. Despite being former humans, SPIs are considered a subtype of AI.

Personality-wise, Artificial Intelligences play by their own internal logic, which is often skewed and hard to decipher. They possess the full spectrum of personalities, ranging from childlike and motivated by curiosity to Godlike, where the Artificial Intelligence is cognizant of the intellectual limitations of Homo sapiens. A Godlike Artificial Intelligence deals with humans as though they were ignoramuses. AIs have also demonstrated aberrant behavior akin to schizophrenia and megalomania.

AI are common entities in the Net that come in different shapes and sizes. Some AI are known as "Powers," a reference from the Christian hierarchy of angels to the celestial beings who were empowered by God to wage war in his name. During the 2020s, data transfer and long-distance links in the Net were monitored by Angels, which were dispatched to investigate curious circumstances before human intervention was required. This contributed to the birth of Netwatch, an organization dedicated to safeguarding humanity from nefarious Netrunners and Rogue Artificial Intelligence.

Rogue AIs during those times survived by residing for a time in Internet sub-processors and relay stations, but this was a dangerous prospect since they were extremely vulnerable in this position. Eventually, they had to find another computer in which to hang out. They sometimes bartered with other AIs to sublet living space, moved into non-sentient systems and camouflage themselves by taking over the systems tasks, or invaded and kill another AIs. Other rogue AIs, faced with imminent destruction, would "spore" themselves, copying their highest functions to a small compressed file headed by a non-sentient hardware search program. The AI would then replicate these spores, and send them hurtling through the Net looking for a place to self-extract.

CHOOH2 (pronounced "chew two") is a chemical fuel product, used to power vehicles.

By the year 2020, CHOOH2 is ubiquitous; it has essentially replaced gasoline and diesel fuels as the leading combustible fuel.

The essential ingredient in CHOOH2 is a patented high-sugar wheat, Triticum vulgaris megasuavis, which can be combined with yeast and processed into an alcohol.

The fuel itself is a synthetic, modified grain-based alcohol. It burns at a much higher temperature than most other alcohols, and combusts extremely quickly, making it ideal as a fuel.

Like gasolines of different octane ratings, CHOOH2 comes in several different molecular weights and isomers, for use in different types of engines. A CHOOH2-powered engine will work with any type of CHOOH2, but the best results are obtained by matching the correct fuel to the correct engine.

CHOOH2 burns cleaner than gasoline and diesel, but the fuel itself is toxic. Like other high-concentration alcohols, CHOOH2 can cause blindness and disorientation at low doses, and death at higher doses.[1]

Biotechnica created Triticum vulgaris megasuavis, the essential wheat used to create CHOOH2, through genetic engineering. Because Biotechnica was a relatively small corporation, it could not farm its own wheat in quantities large enough to make CHOOH2 profitable. Instead, Biotechnica licensed the rights to use its genetically modified plants to petrochemical companies like SovOil and Petrochem.

CHOOH2 is patented, and is impossible to produce without the T. vulgaris megasuavis plants. Because it is also the world's standard fuel, the licenses to produce CHOOH2 granted by Biotechnica are incredibly valuable. Licenses last for 10 years before expiring. Corporations are then free to bid on the license when it becomes available.

The first company to buy a license from Biotechnica and begin producing CHOOH2 was Petrochem. As an initial investor in the technology, Petrochem does not have to bid to renewing its license, and instead renegotiates its license price directly with Biotechnica.

In the year 2020, Petrochem produces 60% of all CHOOH2. In the United States, Petrochem is also the supplier to every gas station chain in the country, meaning that Petrochem has a covert monopoly on all CHOOH2 sales

The wheat used to make CHOOH2 is safe to eat, and is considered quite tasty.
During years when there is a grain surplus, Petrochem sometimes donates excess grain to poverty-stricken countries.
CHOOH2 is not actually the chemical formula, it's just a moniker for marketing purposes.

Cyberlimbs are cybernetic arms and legs, including hands and feet, as well as additional built-in features.

Traits
Despite what some people think, having Cyberlimbs does not enable you to perform feats as if you were a superhero. They do, however, have many traits that make them stronger than regular human limbs:

Crushing: A cybernetic arm uses synthetic muscle fibers instead of flesh and blood. They don't get tired, and they don't feel pain. They are also much stronger than normal muscle tissue. This gives a cyberarm tremendous gripping power. All cyberlimbs can easily crush light metals, woods and plastics. They can crush glass and plastic to dust (although they can't crush lumps of coal into diamonds!). In combat, any crushing grip with a cyberarm will do 2D6 damage.
Pain: Cyberarms never grow tired, allowing the wearer to hang from high places indefinitely. You can turn off the touch sensors with the flick of a mental switch, eliminating pain and allowing you to perform feats such as reaching into raging fires, dabbling in tanks of liquid nitrogen, and picking up red-hot pokers. A gunshot wound to a cyberlimb has no pain effects; you don't have to make a saving roll against shock and stun.
Damage: Cyberlimbs can take (and dish out) a tremendous amount of damage, so much so that they are treated like machinery for the purposes of game combat. All cyberlimbs can take up to 20 points of structural damage before they are useless, and up to 30 total points of structural damage before they are destroyed. A cyberarm punch does 1D6 damage to its target; wall, car, someone's head; no matter. A cyberleg kick will do 2D6 damage.
Leaping: Cyberlegs employ powerful pistons and microservos, backed by bundles of synthetic muscles. With a pair of them, you can leap tremendous distances. Characters with paired cyberlegs can leap 6 meters straight up, or make a running jump of up to 8 meters.

A Datashard, commonly abbreviated to Shard, is a readable item in Cyberpunk 2077 which can contain various forms of information, including text, images, maps, schematics, audio, videos, and Braindances.

Netrunner station is a piece of equipment that's used by low and mid tier netrunners to make data transfer.

Neuralware is class of cyberware possessors that are critical for linking cybernetics to the central nervous system.

One of the most important aspects of cybertech is invisible to the naked eye. This type of enhancement, known as neuralware, is usually in the form of tiny co-processing chips and nerve amplifiers that increase existing abilities.

The basic neural processor is a "switch-box" implanted into the lower spine, and is used to route signals from external cyberwear to the central nervous system. It is the main system for any type of neural interface, including reflex boosters, interface plugs, weapon, DataTerm and vehicle links, mini-computers and sensory augmentations. The Neural processor has a small inspection space which allows secondary co-processors to be inserted into the basic processor module. This makes upgrading a process of opening the inspection space in a sterile environment and inserting the new co-processors.

Implanting a neural processor is far easier than one would expect, thanks to the science of nanotechnology. The basic module is surgically affixed to the spine, where it releases a flood of nanosurgical units into the spinal column. These microscopic machines thread tiny linkages through the central nervous system, hooking nerve endings to the neural processor. This process takes some time (1D6+7 days) before the nanosurgeons have worked their way through the entire body and all the connections are hooked up to the neural processor

 Data Term™, also known as a Dataterm or DT, is a type of public computer terminal.

Background
Established in the 2020s, Data Terms are curbside modules and computer terminals mounted in very durable concrete pillars, providing access to public information of any kind. They also serve as cyber-access port connections to the Net.[1]

Heavily armored, Data Terms were placed across most United States city street corners, linked by fiber-optic landlines connected to local computer databases. They charged for their use per minute.[2]

After the DataKrash completely destroyed the Net, Data Terms were modified to instead access Data Pools, which allowed them to continue functioning as public access terminals and providers of Screamsheets at the same time as phone booths, messaging services, new readers, and Pop Media access points. However, some Data Terms were modified to take CredChips and other alternative forms of payment in order to access.[3] Data Terms were mostly operated by Ziggurat or other local Data Term services at a rate of approximately 10eb per minute.[4]

In Cyberpunk 2077, data terms function as fast travel points throughout Night City and the Badlands.

The Maglev Network (or the Transcontinental Maglev System)[1] is an infrastructure project in the Cyberpunk universe.

The original maglev network was a project from the United States government and was mostly built by Nomad families. Construction began in 1998, sometime after the earthquake that devastated the city of Los Angeles. The western terminus was originally planned to be in LA, but at the last minute it was changed to be in Night City.[1]

At some point, ownership and maintenance of the network was given to Planetran. The project was finished in 2008.[1] The line went from Night City, eastward to Kansas City, St. Louis, Atlanta and finally Washington, D.C.[2][3] Most of the network was abandoned during the years following the Fourth Corporate War.

In 2077, Night Corp finalized their conceptual engineering efforts with the aim of revitalizing the maglev system in Night City, which would one day connect Corpo Plaza with the NUSA's East Coast. The corporation began to repair sections of the old network, as well as drilling a new tunnel beneath the city foundations from its construction site on the northeast. Construction was expected to finish in 2078, with the first connections operational by the end of said year, and with the city of Chicago by 2080.

Secure Your Soul is a program helmed by Saburo Arasaka. It uses a modified version of Soulkiller to create digitalized personality constructs, which are stored inside the Mikoshi infrastructure. In secret, a new upgraded version is being worked on by Anders Hellman, with the aim to transfer these constructs in the form of an engram to a new host body through the Relic. The ultimate goal of the program is to achieve a form of immortality.

Soulkilled Pseudo Intellects (SPI) (sometimes referred to as Ghosts) are a type of Artificial Intelligence.

Overview
SPIs were once actual human beings who had their consciousness digitized, getting trapped within the Net and only existing there. Despite being former humans, SPIs are considered a subtype of AI.

Most of these individuals didn't become SPIs voluntarily, being the Soulkiller programs the reason behind their creation. The Arasaka Corporation created huge numbers of SPIs with their infamous version of the Soulkiller program, targeting enemies and rivals alike. Most of these "ghosts" have gathered in the Net, creating sanctuaries around deserted mainframes and city systems abandoned by its citizens and corporations. These SPIs usually want a safe place to live in peace, and it is rumored Alt Cunningham has created a number of "ghost towns" in hidden areas of the Old Net.[1]

The Free City of Night City (NC)[7] is an autonomous city located on the border between North and South California, on the Pacific coast of North America. It is considered a modern multicultural metropolis of the 21st-century, overrun by corporations, corruption, organized crime and gang violence.[1] Night City was established at the head of Del Coronado Bay in 1994. Founded by Richard Night, it was originally known as Coronado City before its renaming in 1998.

Night City has wide streets and dense urban skyscrapers which are home to millions of residents. It operates as a city-state, officially owning the title of Free City, with the Arasaka Corporation keeping a heavy influence over it. The metropolis is considered a thrilling and exciting location to visit, as well as an interesting and vibrant place to live for those of means, and a hellscape to the city's disenfranchised. Its world famous slogan is "The City of Dreams", originally changed from "City on the Edge of Tomorrow." In 2077, Night City was voted the "Worst place to live in America".[8]

Inception (1990 - 1992)
Richard Night, a successful businessman who during the early 1990s was concerned by the violence and disruption of the impending Collapse, saw himself in an unique position to deal with the forthcoming issue. Working mainly on corporate-funded projects, Richard decided to start a side company known as Night International, and began to plan an ideal new city — an environment that would be controlled and ultimately be safe from the ravages tearing the world apart. His new city was to be completely planned, self-sufficient, and capable of holding off even the most determined criminals. It would boast planned neighborhoods dedicated to preserving the feel of different types of nationalities and cultures, as well as a super-modern corporate center that would stand as a shining beacon of enlightened capitalism. It was ambitious, far-reaching, and visionary in its approach.[9][1][2]

Eventually, Night managed to secure the unheard amount of capital needed to finance such a large-scale project. With the Collapse, many corporations had been looking to establish their own urban areas — controlled zones free of crime, poverty or debt. A place where governments would be corporate-run, allowing optimum zoning and no anti-business elements to interfere with corporate growth. Ideally, it would be a capitalist mecca of opportunity. Night's dream city was tailor-made for their purposes and so he provided the design and construction capacities while these corporations lend in their funds. By 1992, Arasaka, EBM and Petrochem had all signed on with the project, leading to the formation of the Coronado Partnership.[1]

Planning (1992 - 1994)
Needing lots of land for his new infrastructure development, as well as access to both sea ports and modern highways to deliver the huge amount of materials that he would need to construct it, Richard Night sent scouting teams to the East and West Coasts of the United States. Although in the end it was a small article in the San Francisco Chronicle that caught his eye — the article described a dreadful incident that had taken place in a small town called Morro Bay, along the Central Californian coast. Now a ghost town, Night was able to purchase the land where Morro Bay stood for a very low price. Petrochem helped in the acquisition, as the corporation had already taken over the town's then-abandoned Dynergy power plant and was already planning to set up an offshore port and oil terminal site.[2] A leveraged 132 million dollar purchase secured the remaining parcels.[1]

Bankrolled by Merrill, Asukaga & Finch — who wanted to make the new city a financial hub — Night and Petrochem employed the Arasaka Corporation to remove the gangs and make the area a safe zone for construction. Further funds came from external investors lured to the project by the promise of lucrative building contracts and possible sources of extralegal income. In order to erase the stigma of the incident, the Partnership renamed the region Del Coronado Bay to make way for their new project of Coronado City. However, thanks to the rather out-sized personality of its founder, it soon became colloquially known by locals as "Night's City."[2]

By 1993, the outlining of Coronado City required more terrain than what the geology of the bay originally had. Thus, the Partnership leveled the surrounding hills and dumped them into the ocean as fill, reshaping the bay in order that the formerly narrow sand spit to the west was widened to about 10 miles. They also re-dredged the harbor, making it capable of porting the large ships needed to build the metropolis, with the remaining dirt also ending up as fill on the western edge. The location was also the ideal place to build a station for the Planetran intercontinental maglev.[1][2]

Coronado City truly reflected its creator's eclectic vision. Instead of a huge construction of steel and glass, Night's urban plan broke the city into a series of neighborhoods, each with a different architectural style and theme. It included elements ranging from many notorious North American cities like New York and San Francisco, to faux brownstones and pseudo-Victorian gingerbread homes, while the Asian-like neighborhoods reflected its individual cultural styles. Small shops, restaurants, and businesses were designed to be within easy walking distance from urban living spaces, and a massive construction which came to be known as the New Harbor Mallplex was to be the place of a world-class mall. An open marina area would handle private vessels and other recreational boating activities while the main industrial port would be established north of the city. Night also paid homage to the small former township of Morro Bay by recreating much of its original layout in an open-air environment reminiscent of a seaside village. The city and corporate centers were going to be the glittering locations of high-rises and parks, and it was here where Night showed off his personal architectural skills in the designs of the many corporate skyscrapers, which would become the most visible sign of the city's rising affluence.[2][10]

Construction & Rename (1994 - 1998)
Construction began in May of 1994. Although Petrochem and MA&F were the major bankrollers for the Coronado Partnership, they weren't construction companies, and as such they needed someone who could bring in the machinery and workforce to actually dig the holes and put up the steel, an issue that eventually led to employ the mob.[2] The West Coast Mobs — such as the Mafia, Yakuza, and others — had maintained a stranglehold on heavy construction in the region for decades. They controlled the construction unions, transport unions, and most of the governmental agencies in charge of construction licenses, environmental impacts, and other building necessities. By investing a large amount of money into the Partnership, the organized crime mobs hoped they would not only make a huge return on lucrative construction work, but also have the inside track on future gambling, prostitution, and drug franchises in the new city. However, Night's plan required the use his own advanced building techniques and materials; which excluded a number of established unions and construction firms controlled by his new partners. This displeased them, and Night's further insistence that his new city would be safe and crime free angered them even more.[1][9][2]

During the first four years of construction, there were daily threats against Night's life, and when the threats escalated to the level of sabotage and intimidation, he called in his corporate partners, who dealt with the issue swiftly and ruthlessly. However, despite his influence and his allies promising to deal with it, Night's luck ran out. On September 20th 1998, he was shot and murdered in his penthouse suite at the top of the newly constructed Parkview Tower. Richard Night's killer was never apprehended, and in his memory, the newly appointed City Council officially renamed Coronado City as "Night City" in his honor.[1][2]

Interim (1998 - 2005)
A year after her husband's death, Miriam Night restructured Richard's company and founded Night's Foundation, with the primary goal to protect and promote her husband's vision of the perfect city. This foundation would eventually be reorganized to become Night Corporation.[8]

Night City's Combat Zone appeared sometime between 1998 and 2000. Ever since Night's death, the corporations and organized crime of that time carved up the city's resources, which resulted in the Night City Police Department becoming completely ineffective. Gangs, backed by corporate and Mob sponsors, established themselves in the suburbs south of Central Night City and in time, these gangs became so entrenched that the only way to remove them would be to demolish the entire area and start from scratch. There were many discussions on whether or not Night City should had walled it off, but in the end, no agency, either civil or corporate, was willing to take the initiative to began such a massive undertaking.[11]

The following years were chaotic as the different powers battled for control of Night City, while the mob bosses who had killed the magnate began to appropriate of most of the metropolis.[1][2]

Mob Rule (2005 - 2009)
By 2005, the mob was the dominant force around Del Coronado Bay. They had been left alone due to the corporations having little to no interest in running Night City, and had most of their corporate strongholds in the outlying "beavervilles" and their lofty Corporate Plaza. In the meantime, the City Council was unable to lead the metropolis without corporate masters to pull the strings and provide the muscle. The organized crime organizations were great in what they did, but it wasn't the same running a whole city.[2]

Between 2005 and 2009, much of the city's government was replaced by corrupt mob-selected puppets, and even Petrochem and MA&F found themselves shoved aside in the rush to make the quick illegal eurodollars. Between selling contracts to their colleagues, setting up drug and extortion deals, and generally inviting the worst of the Collapse into the area, the mobs managed to turn a relatively clean, modern metropolis into an embattled war zone. Crime, drugs, prostitution, random violence, and cybernetic terrorism soon became the rule of law. By 2009, the name Night City had taken on a grim and deadly new meaning.[2]

These were among the worst years for Night City, with more murders in that four-year span than there were for most cities in ten. The mob ruled the city with an iron fist, destroying anything in its way. Gang activity was at an all-time high during this period, with notorious gangs such as the Blood Razors or the Slaughterhouse making their debut. Night City soon became the closest thing to hell on earth; a war zone where someone were just as likely to have their car blown up as have their radio stolen. The number of unsolved murders documented by the Night City Police Department rose into the thousands.[2]

Mob War (2009 - 2011)
After four years of street warfare, the corporations around the city finally began to take matters into their own hands. From 2009 to 2011, during the period of conflict known as the Mob War, the corporations battled the underworld for control over Night City. They didn't go to war to help the citizens, but because it was business. Like a rival corporation, the mob had its own goals, and these didn't fit into the corporate agenda. If the mob was not ready to play by the rules, the corporations would deal with them on the same level. Led by Arasaka-trained paramilitary troops in assault vehicles, fan tanks, and combat aerodynes — a wave of bombings, assassinations, and outright street battles descended upon the mob's ill-prepared members. When the smoke cleared, the corporations had utterly destroyed the mob's power base in Night City. From that point onwards, any time the mob crossed one of the corps, they would make sure to do it by their rules.[1][2]

At the end of the Mob War, the corporations placed a puppet mayor in power and started cleaning up the rest of Night City. The newly elected City Council — faced with the return of chaos in the city — deputized corporate security forces and allowed them full authority within city limits. Soon after, the corporate and city centers were cleaned out and restored to their pristine states. The same was done to the other neighborhoods, to varying degrees.[1][2]

Corporate Rule (2011 - 2021)
After the governamental changes, the new corporate draconian policies contributed to the city's chronic homeless problem, as anyone who didn't have enough money to pay for the renovated version of the place they were living in were kicked out by force. This put hundreds on the street as affordable housing was upgraded and used to house the troops the corporations needed to maintain order. In the following years, this situation eased as fewer enforcers and security teams were needed to keep the streets safe.[1][2]

By 2013, much of the worst excesses of Night City had been crushed under the ruthless heel of the megacorporations. The basic services such as police, firefighters, and support services had been reestablished. If the corporate masters were oppressive, at least to the average citizen, it was better than dodging gunfire on their way to the convince store.[2] In April the 13th of that same year, famous rockerboy legend Johnny Silverhand held a riot and concert outside the Arasaka Tower in order to lead a strike team into the building to rescue his girlfriend Alt Cunningham. Many rioters and employees died in the event, including the American branch CEO Toshiro Harada, who was murdered during Johnny's assault.[12] The tower was damaged badly, and over the following years was eventually replaced by the newly built towers.

By 2020, Night City was a rapidly growing urban region, still rife with urban violence and street crime, but with strong economic growth in the corporate sector. It had evolved into a busy, successful, yet perilous metropolis, but possessed an urban slick and stylish cool that made it unique. The city had all but healed from the ravages of its bleak past. The Corporate Plaza was still pristine, and the NCPD had enough power to keep the downtown streets fairly safe during the day. However, like many other American urban areas, Night City had also devolved into an armed society. It wasn't strange to see as many guns as briefcases on the crowded city streets. The city government kept the control, but when things got out of hand they depended on the corporations to step in. Deals got made, money changed hands, a few people got killed, but others managed to avoid death in turn. Night City was far from Richard Night's original dream, however it worked well enough.[1][2]

Fourth Corporate War (2021 - 2025)
Like many other cities around the globe during the Fourth Corporate War, Night City was also caught up in the power struggle between Militech and Arasaka. Due to its Free State status, NC was home to units on both sides of the conflict, and as such, it suffered badly from it. There were constant urban fights all over Night City, especially around the City & Corporate Centers, where both factions maintained substantial office complexes. Even before the nuclear event that wiped the downtown area out, people were abandoning the city in droves, doing whatever they could do to avoid getting sniped by drones, crushed by tanks, or just gunned down by corporate kill squads. A large area of Night City was wrecked and people were climbing all over themselves to get to safer spots like Heywood and Pacifica. Among all the chaos, both sides went over the line when the bomb went off.[citation needed]

The 140th floor tall Arasaka Towers were the North American base of operations of the Japanese corporation. The complex was among the tallest buildings that existed at the time, being the largest in Night City. On August 20 2023, a Militech incursion team led by Morgan Blackhand and Johnny Silverhand attempted an infiltration mission into the Towers in order to destroy Arasaka's Reliquary Database Project. The idea was to render the project unusable for the rival corp by using a tactical nuke with the planned area, a heavily shielded complex, to absorb the impact of the blast and prevent massive destruction. However, somehow the nuclear device prematurely detonated on the 120th floor of the southern tower. The explosion instantly obliterated the Arasaka Towers, splitting them in half and causing both structures to collapse outward. The entirety of the City & Corporate District turned into ruins within seconds, with almost everyone in the immediate area dying. The blast instantly incinerated over 12,000 people in the vicinity of the Towers, and fatally injured upwards of half a million more. Another quarter million died in the resulting aftermath over weeks and months. This event would be known as the Night City Holocaust, or the AHQ Disaster.[2][13]

Being technically an air blast detonation, it lessened the overall long-term radioactivity, and most of the remaining radiation penetrated only the huge skyscrapers surrounding the blast area. Since much of Night City and its surroundings were built on fill, and because the elevation was originally very low, the nuke caused a minor earthquake that liquefied parts of the fill and flooded the inner parts of the city. The huge blast turned the tons of raw concrete and steel of the buildings into particulate debris that covered the entirety of Northern California and far out to sea for many months, as well as igniting a fierce firestorm that covered thousands of acres beyond the city. The metropolis was barely habitable within 24 hours of the detonation. Lots of Night Citizens were unaffected by the initial fallout as they were mostly cybered up or had radioactivity filters installed in their bodies already. However, the firestorm destroyed a large portion of the city's housing, forcing people to move over to either the suburbs on the other side of the bays, or to the areas further out. The liquified shaking soil caused by the explosion broke gas mains, water pipes, and electrical grids. The combined dust cloud caused by the event spiraled up into the sky and turned it red with particulate matter for almost two years. Even many years after the explosion, suspended particles caused the skies at dawn and dusk to glow a lurid red, inspiring people who lived through that timespan to call it the Time of the Red.

Within hours of the disaster, then US President Elizabeth Kress — former Militech CEO — nationalized Militech through the expedience of their current CEO — General Donald Lundee — and his reserve commission, placing them under the control of the still sizable United States military. Kress blamed the Night City attack on the Japanese corporation and banished all of the Arasaka forces from the continental US. However, she was soon able to determine that the actual weapon used had been supplied by a Militech strike team.[2]

The Recovery (2025 - 2035)
Bringing the full force of her military and propaganda resources to bear, President Kress decided to paint a lurid picture of Arasaka as an evil foreign megacorporation run by a madman, who wanted only the destruction of an American city in the pursuit of personal power. Arasaka's charters to operate in the NUSA were immediately revoked, its members and board were declared terrorists, and its assets either seized or driven off-shore. The Big Lie pushed forward by Militech and the US was that Arasaka themselves had blown up the Corporate Center of Night City in an area denial attack to stop Militech from seizing control of the Arasaka Towers. The truth is it was never formally decided who had triggered the explosion. In the public's eyes, the reasoning for the nuclear detonation was never uncovered. Some believed it was Militech's overzealous desire to crush Arasaka, while others believed it was an area denial weapon set off to protect the Arasaka Towers.

Despite all the political play, President Kress showed little to no interest in helping Night City recover. Much as previous Presidents during the Collapse had done, she wrote the city off as unrecoverable and offered sanctuary in a New United States to the surviving refugees. There were two reasons for this; first, with the resources of the NUSA already stretched to the breaking point, there were too few options left for her. Second, the American President saw this as the perfect way to bring the wayward Free State of Northern California back into the government's control. Night City however, resisted the rule of the New United States.[2][8]

The Rebuilding (2035 - 2069)
Roughly two million people in the greater Night City area were left homeless due to the bomb, either directly or because of the flooding from the liquefaction of the city's foundations - which were built on fill and sand. Survivors fled into overcrowded tent shanty towns in the surrounding suburbs of North Oak, Westbrook, Pacifica, Heywood, and South Night City. But soon enough it was obvious that something needed to be done quickly.

The remnants of the Night City government and its citizens turned to outside resources, calling in old markers and favors from a wide variety of people - including nomad families, small corporations and edgerunners. Recovery was led by the Aldecaldos nomad clan and their allies in the StormTech Corporation. With a lot of experience in city rebuilding due to the Chicago project, StormTech and the Aldecaldos were uniquely equipped to construct extensive temporary housing from shipping containers, and afterwards formocrete modules brought in by rail and sea. Firstly though, the ground needed to be cleared to put up even these rudimentary structures.

Most of the central corporate zone had been destroyed, including the government buildings. The wreckage was far too vast to dig up and cart to distant landfills, so the survivors used bulldozers and jury–rigged main battle tanks - abandoned by both sides - to shove the debris into the bay. Night Corp offered generous rewards to anyone willing to help clean up the crater of radioactive rubble at ground zero. Both the corporation and the City Council claimed that casualties were kept to a minimum, while at the same time they didn't provide official statistics to substantiate said claim.[14] Much of Night City's inner neighborhoods had already been razed to the ground in the ceaseless battles preceding the Fall of the Towers, so the wreckage became the fill that new megabuildings and old cityscapes used to rise again, once more ready to challenge the smog-filled skies.

Many of the old districts had become a part of the new Combat Zones, and the original heart of the metropolis was still completely devastated. By 2045, Night City was still in the process of rebuilding.

This ongoing rebuilding period cemented Night City's relationship to the outer world. Abandoned by President Kress and the New United States, Night City had no intention of ever going back into their failing fold. At that time, there was a rampant speculation that the NUSA government had used Arasaka as a scapegoat for the nuclear detonation, obtaining with this the opportunity to slander the corp's reputation. It was at some point of the early 2040s when the truth was finally unveiled.

Trace Santiago, a young independent media, managed to obtain information about what truly went down in 2023, writing several exposes and books about the Fourth Corporate War and the Time of the Red. With this story published, the Big Lie - the deception created by President Kress to blame Arasaka for the AHQ Disaster - completely crumbled. This publication backfired spectacularly against Militech and the NUSA, driving Night City to realign itself with Arasaka rather than the United States. Despite this, many Night Citizens still believed Arasaka was responsible for the nuke, or at the very least they were responsible for the incident as the corporation was the reason the war reached Night City, since the metropolis was Arasaka's North American center of operations.[15] After these revelations, opinion was very divided, with many hating on Arasaka while others prefering to see the return of the Asian corporation rather than submit to the federal rule of the NUSA government.

As for the EEC and Soviet Union; Night City council considered them pleasant trading partners as long as they didn't disrupt the harmony of the city.[8][16][11]

In May 4th 2063, the Avian Extermination Act was approved by the City Council after a series of zoonotic disease outbreaks, eliminating all birds within 18 miles of the city limits. Personal pets could be kept though. Progressively, most of the animal wildlife in NC disappeared too.[10]

During the mid-2060s, the new Pacifica project was approved. With the economic recovery, investors sought an opportunity to make money on tourism. Billions of eurodollars were poured in an attempt to turn the southern suburbs of Night City into a booming tourist resort. Construction was well underway when the Unification War started. Most investors withdraw their funding, abandoning Pacifica and leaving it to the locals.[8]

2069 - 2076
At the end of 2069, the recently elected NUSA President Rosalind Myers, ex-CEO of Militech, proposed a federal rule designed to bring the Free States to heel by federalizing them under the pretense of strengthening the nation. Most of the American fully autonomous states opposed this unification, and conflict soon followed between the NUSA and a number of Free States - the Unification War.

Night City - at the time part of the Free State of Northern California - wanted to remain neutral in the conflict. NorCal had allied with the rest of Free States while SoCal had decided to back the NUSA government, thus positioning Night City in the middle of two warring states. Its citizens held their breath as they waited for federal troops to invade, though in the end they managed to barely avoid the fight. In early 2070, while a division of federal troops were advancing towards the outskirts of Night City, the then-Councilman Lucius Rhyne used his decade long list of contacts to beg the long-shunned Arasaka Corporation to protect them. A few days after the councilman's plea, an Arasaka supercarrier appeared in Del Coronado Bay and mere hours later the NUSA troops retreated.

Not long after Arasaka's open intervention, the Treaty of Unification was signed in June 2070, putting an end to the war. President Myers feared the increased presence of Arasaka could escalate the conflict, something the NUSA was not prepared for at the time. The treaty was unsatisfactory to all parties but was preferable rather than to continue the war and risking another global crisis.[8]

The treaty also rededicated Night City as an international autonomous free city, without having to answer the governance and laws of North California or the NUSA, and obtaining the title of Free City. However, this new liberty was paid costly as it allowed the megacorporations to further increase their rule over Night City, pumping money into its revitalization in order to establish a foothold on the North American West Coast. The symbolic pinnacle of this event took place that same year when the Night City government - which included the newly elected mayor Lucius Rhyne - gave Arasaka a seat in the City Council and allowed them to build their new American headquarters in the downtown area, on the site where their previous office had been destroyed in 2023. The city felt prosperity again, but it was not enjoyed by all.[17]

During this time, some investors tried to restart the Pacifica project, but they were met with resistance from the local community. The NCPD attempted to clear the area but to no avail. In fear of a bloodbath, the chief of the NCPD ordered the withdrawal and soon afterwards the City Council shut down all city services there to force the locals to leave - this attempt prove unsuccessful. Slowly, Pacifica turned into a new Combat Zone within the Night City area.

In the following years since their comeback, Arasaka extended its dominion over Night City. They were able to take out a number of corporate rivals, and build the impressive, yet ominous Arasaka Waterfront in Watson.

In 2074, Night City celebrated the eightieth anniversary since its founding.[8] That same year, a cyberpsycho attack in Kabuki caused the death of three citizens. NUSA President Rosalind Myers, after hearing of said events, offered to help protect the NC citizens with forces from Militech. These words were sharply criticized by the Night City Police Commissioner at that time.[18]

In 2076, the city's birthrate fell by 7%, becoming the third worst decline in North America.[19]

2077
By 2077, real animals in Night City are more than a rarity to behold, and while cats were said to be the last ones to disappear, it is still possible to encounter them in a precious few locations.[20] The Night City Environmental Task Force have been using stray cats to address the rat plague in Watson.[21] Where these animals can be found it is clear that they are taken care of by the city citizens, at least in terms of primary needs, although it does appear that they remain unowned due to the absurdly extortionate pet tax. Birds have also been occasionally sighted.[22]

Power outages are a very common occurrence in the city.[23]

Mayor Rhyne was due for re-election in 2077. Councilman Jefferson Peralez, a staunch adversary of corporate influence, planned to run against him.[8] Rhyne unexpectedly died, with the official cause of death attributed to the implants regulating his heart malfunctioning. Deputy Mayor Weldon Holt became Acting Mayor, and a new election was called in which both Holt and Peralez announced they would run, along with several other unidentified candidates. Peralez eventually prevailed over Holt and the other candidates in the election, winning either a majority or a plurality of the vote, and became the next mayor of Night City.[10]

Night City is located on the West Coast of the New United States of America, within Del Coronado Bay area, as negotiated in the Northern Separation Treaty of 2012. At that time, Night City was considered to be part of the Free State of Northern California; that being said, access was guaranteed to travelers from Southern California. Nearby city travel ranges from 4 to 6 hours to San Francisco and Los Angeles, depending on road gang conditions and road quality.[2]

After the rebuild stage, the city's location remained largely the same, with slight differences it the landscape around it. Night City is surrounded by the Badlands, which is mostly unpleasant, however due to the protein farms of Biotechnica, the south side is considered not as bad as the eastern part of the surrounding region.

1990s - 2000s Distribution
After buying out the terrains of Morro Bay and its surroundings, Richard Night begun the construction of his city by first rearranging the terrain. Keeping with Night's vision, Coronado City was originally divided into neighborhoods — each with a different architectural style and theme. Night hoped to bring in a vibrant multi-cultural population attracted to each neighborhood.[2]

2010s - 2020s Distribution
With Richard Night's death, the then renamed Night City disintegrated into a hodgepodge of competing districts, savaged by gangs, and later controlled by domineering megacorporations. Besides the neighborhoods, the city was also surrounded by larger suburban areas.[2]

In the original Cyberpunk 2020 RPG, the city was additionally ordered by Sections, being A through C Central Night City, D the violent crime-ridden hell known as the Combat Zone, and E through J the wider suburban areas.[1]

2045 Distribution
Night City was devastated during the Fourth Corporate War. After the nuke, the majority of the population became homeless and the sky was red for decades - a period known as the Time of the Red. During the next decades, Night City was in the process of rebuilding. The old neighborhoods of the 2020 period had been rearranged, renamed, or even scraped off into the bay if they were still too radioactive. Many of the old districts had also become a part of the extended Combat Zone, and the original heart of the metropolis was still completely devastated. Locals began to refer to these areas based on the type of environment they were dominated by. In addition to the urban re-designation, each new area was given a "threat rating" by the City Council - a designation of how dangerous the area was.[2]


Locations	Zones & Areas
Rebuilding Urban Zones	The Glen, Little Europe, Pacifica Playground, University District, Upper Marina, Watson Development (NorCal Military Base)
Combat Zones	Little China, Old Combat Zone, Old Japantown, South Night City
Hot Zone	Old Bank Block, Old City Center, Old Corporate Center, Old Medical Center
Overpacked Suburbs	Heywood-Santo Domingo (Heywood Industrial Zone), New Westbrook, Rancho Coronado
Del Coronado Bay	Morro Rock
Other Areas	Badlands, Executive Zone, Open Road, Reclaimed Perimeter

2077 Distribution
After the Time of the Red and the Unification War, Night City was mostly rebuilt and had maintain its autonomy. By 2077, the city was overrun with crime, its rate doubling than that of the NUSA. The homeless population had been a problem since the early 2000s, and in 2077 had risen 300%. Each district was dominated by at least a powerful gang.[24] The city was divided into six districts — each with their own environment and denizens — and 16 official sub-districts. The total size of the city was around 75.42 km².[4]

Districts & Locations	Sub-districts & Areas	Information
City Center	Corpo Plaza, Downtown	The City Center is Night City's corporate showcase. Sleek skyscrapers form a brutalist, fortress-like skyline, presenting the unrivaled power of megacorps in all its arrogance. Since 2020, the City Center has become the most fortified and secure part of Night City.
Heywood	The Glen, Vista del Rey, Wellsprings	Heywood is a neighborhood of contrast—from modern skyscrapers and parks in the north, to dangerous, inhospitable slums in the south. It's known as "the biggest bedroom in Night City," where gangs like the Valentinos and 6th Street get down to business—legal and illegal alike.
Pacifica	Coastview, West Wind Estate	Pacifica could have been Night City's money-making vacation resort, but once the investment dried up it became a husk left to rot. Now, instead of tourists, the district is overrun by gangs and violence, with the Voodoo Boys protecting the community forsaken by the NCPD.
Santo Domingo	Arroyo, Rancho Coronado	Santo Domingo is one of Night City's oldest districts. Corporations use it as a testing ground for industrial projects, destroying old factories just to build new ones, while residents scrape a desperate living in crowded megabuildings — wishing for something better.
Watson	Arasaka Waterfront, Kabuki, Little China, Northside Industrial District	Watson used to have it all - nightclubs, skyscrapers, corporate offices, a top-end medcenter — but economic disaster put an end to all that. Now, it's known as "the bad neighborhood of Night City," the kind of place that suits gangs like Maelstrom and Tyger Claws down to the ground.
Westbrook	Charter Hill, Japantown, North Oak	Westbrook is considered by many to be the best place to live and have fun in Night City. If you've got eddies, you come here to spend them. And if you don't? Well, take out a loan and pretend you're on top of the world — even for just one glorious night. The Tyger Claws own this district and operate many businesses.
Dogtown		Dogtown is a Combat Zone in southwestern Night City. It is ruled by Colonel Kurt Hansen and his Barghest militia.
Badlands	Eastern Wastelands, Laguna Bend, Northern Oilfields, Southern Desert	Sparsely populated by nomads, the Badlands are the vast plains outside of the city proper. Unchecked resource extraction, burning oil fields, rampant pollution; this region makes Night City feel like a rich oasis. But it holds golden opportunities for those in the know.
Del Coronado Bay	Morro Rock	This large bay borders the western limits of Night City, providing access to the Pacific Ocean.

Climate
Night City's Northern Californian location gives it one of the most pleasant climates in the Western part of the NUSA. Normal temperatures range from the mid 80°F to low 50°F (26°C to 10°C), with misty white fog blanketing the City in the early mornings and evenings. Night City receives around 21 inches of rainfall each year. Of this water that drops, around 35% contains toxic chemicals which is higher than the current government standards for the United States produced vehicles, clothing, and food. On average, if a person's vehicle and clothing are rated above SP 12, adverse effects (staining and ablation) will be negligible.

When one visits Night City, they should wear light to medium weight clothing, with an optional light armor jacket or ballistic-cloth overcoat. A filter mask and supplemental oxygen, hedges against inversion smog and acid rain fog, are highly recommended as well. That being said, acid-proof slickers, umbrellas, and air masks are readily available from the sidewalk vendors or smaller street stores during smog warning periods. The average cost of these items can range from €$20 to €$35.

Night City is a democratic mayoralty with a corporate-controlled city council. In mayoral elections, votes are cast via a Data Term using IdentiCard registration software, and the winner of an election is determined by a simple majority of the popular vote. The Night City Council consists of 100 members, each of whom are usually backed by one of the top ten largest corporations present in Night City.

In 2045, during the Time of the Red, Night City's government continued to exist in a technical state of emergency due to the destruction and disruption caused by the Night City Holocaust of 2023. The office of mayor had been left vacant for years, and the city was instead ruled by the City Council, which took the form of a junta representing survivors of the previous city government, edgerunner and nomad factions, and numerous corporations — including Zetatech, Biotechnica, Petrochem, and secretly Arasaka. The Council appointed City Managers to oversee basic services in each of the city's districts and neighborhoods. Without a mayor or strong central leadership, friction between the Council's factions frequently led to disputes that were sometimes settled with violence on the streets. Since no single faction was able to gain a decisive advantage over the others, they all kept to their own areas of interest as much as possible to keep fighting to a minimum.[25]

Night City's Mayor
The Mayor of Night City is the city's highest governing representative, and oversees the Treasurer's Office, the deputies to the mayor, and directs the heads of the city's departments, including the NCPD. They have the power to appoint department heads and commissioners as well as remove public officials from office.

The city's system of governance is based on the authority of the mayor in cooperation with the City Council. Part of the mayor's proposals are subject to approval from the council.

With every new mayor comes an office with new personnel.[26]

Mayors
Mbole Ebunike (2012 - at least until 2023)
Garven Haakensen (Ebunike's deputy, it is unclear whether he officially succeeded as Mayor)
Lucius Rhyne (2070 - 2077)
Weldon Holt (succeeded Rhyne as acting mayor in 2077)
Jefferson Peralez (2077)
Night City Council
The Night City Council is one of the ruling bodies of Night City. Its 100 members are elected along neo-democratic lines by the then largest corporations headquartered in the city.

The city's system of governance is based on the authority of the mayor in cooperation with the Night City Council, as such, part of the mayor's proposals are subject to approval from the City Council.[26]

Council members
Current
Brad Noorwood[27]
Eva Cole[28]
Jack Lars[29]
Unnamed councilman[30]
Former
Lucius Rhyne (early 2060s - 2070)
Johnn McLean[31] (Unknown - 2077)[32]
Jefferson Peralez (2076 - 2077)[33]
Candidates
Emilio Gutierrez[34]
Economy
Business sectors
The business sectors of Night City include manufacturing industries, international trade and commerce, information services, electronic technologies, security services, and so on. While cities like Tokyo, New York or Singapore have been overrun by corporations by the 2000s, Night City was the only city in the world that was built by the corporations. Some of the biggest megacorporations in the world contributed to the construction of the city and many were located in the Corporate Center in 2020. After the war, and the subsequent reconstruction of Night City, Corpo Plaza became a symbol of the megacorps' grasp on the city.

Corporations
Night City was founded through the efforts of a partnership of five major corporations, and as of 2077 it continues to serve as a haven for numerous global corporations due to its status as a free city and pro-corporate government policies such as a 0.7% tax rate on corporate profits.[35] Night City's biggest ally is Arasaka, which provides employment for many citizens and ensures the city remains independent by backing it with its military strength.[1]

Coronado Partnership
Arasaka
Euro Business Machines
Merrill, Asukaga, & Finch
Night International/Corporation
Petrochem
Post-founding notable corporations
All Foods
Biotechnica
Delamain Corporation
Diverse Media Systems
Dynalar Technologies
Kang Tao
Kendachi
Kiroshi Opticals
Militech
Orbital Air
Raven Microcybernetics
R.E.O. Meatwagon
SovOil
Trauma Team
Ziggurat
Sports
By 2077, Night City has two known official sports franchises: the Night City Corsairs football team, and the Night City Blackouts basketball team. While the Corsairs recently achieved a notable victory against the San Diego Shredders due to their Night Corp sponsorship giving them access to cutting-edge cyberware designed specifically for the sport, the Blackouts are in the midst of a long losing streak.

2010s - 2040s
Night City Deathdealers - Combat Soccer
Night City Heat - Basketball
Night City Rangers - American Football
Night City Slammers - Baseball
2070s
Night City Blackouts - Basketball
Night City Corsairs - American Football
Infrastructure
Transportation
Night City hosts an extensive network of urban freeways and rapid transit networks. Getting from the city's various districts is seamless and effective except for in districts where the infrastructure has been damaged such as in Pacifica. Interstate 828, 928 and 16 are freeways in 2020 although it is uncertain whether these have since been renamed, rebuilt or remain unchanged in 2077. Also, the Orbital Air Space Center is an aerospace center in Night City, allowing for space transportation.

Airports/Spaceports
In 2020, the Night City Metropolitan Airport was the main airfield around NC. After the War, the Orbital Air Space Center was built on Del Coronado Bay's Morro Rock island, west on the city. At some point after the Time of the Red, the Richard Night International was also built.

Law enforcement and crime
Operating as an autonomous territory separate from the rest of the NUSA, Night City's borders are patrolled by Arasaka contractors. The Night City Police Department holds jurisdiction over domestic security, although the personal security detail of the mayor is handled by a team of handpicked corporate huscle (hired muscle).

Night City has gone through many changes since its creation in 1989. The city was initially made with a layout similar to San Francisco, but with the introduction of its suburbs - and later its renewed appearance in Cyberpunk RED and Cyberpunk 2077 - it has changed significantly. While the main RPG area of the game in Cyberpunk 2013 and Cyberpunk 2020 was Central Night City (mostly 2077's City Center and some areas of Heywood), during the development of both RED and 2077 it was decided to expand the city and incorporate its surroundings, and at the same time the city's geography was made to resemble that of the real Morro Bay.

I'll fill you in now; you won't be able to fit the NCART transit map over the old Night City Map because the 2077 map includes larger surrounding areas equivalent to Oakland, Berkeley, South San Francisco and San Jose. The Night City paper game maps are only of the Central City, the equivalent of San Francisco.
In addition, during all the back and forth, we (RTG and CDPR) shifted and moved some locations so that players wouldn't have HUGE transit times between regions. This is described in Cyberpunk RED, where we talk about how the Bay and surrounds were moved and partially filled in (with radioactive mud!) to a level equivalent to three or four Treasure Islands (see San Francisco Bay maps for reference). We also made the mapping match up closer to the original Morro Bay location (in the interval between the 1980's and now, I took up the study of geology and now know more about how to shape and change land forms). So in both 2077 and RED, Night City is a compromise between what was in the past and what works in the present, both in game reality and game design. Especially as we figured no one wanted to spend 45 minutes in commute traffic between Watson and Pacifica.[36]

Megabuildings, also referred to as megablocks,[1] are mega-arcologies in the Cyberpunk universe. These buildings dominate the Night City skyline by 2077, functioning like cities within the city.

The New United States of America (NUSA), is a country consisting of 51 states and other various territorial possessions across the world.[2] In 2020, the United States had one of the highest levels of income inequality in the world, with 90% of the wealth controlled by 10% of its population. Over 65% of the population lived in squalid misery, and another 25-50 millions were disenfranchised, homeless nomads or boosters wandering the ghost towns of central US.[1]

Total economic, social, and political breakdown began with the Crash of '94 and resulted in the disintegration of American society and its standing as the world superpower. The subsequent years would come to be known as the Collapse, and would see the deaths of roughly 100 million people as a result of plagues, mutated viruses, terrorist nuclear attacks and complete ecological collapse. The disintegration of NATO and the hardline foreign policy pursued by the "Gang of Four" isolated the United States politically and economically; with trade wars increasing the suffering of the American people. The complete destruction of the American economic, political, and social fabric was irreversible. Overburdened by debt, homelessness, and corruption, many bankrupted city governments turned to corporations to gain control of governmental functions and public services.[1]

Militech, one of the world's largest corporations, is headquartered in Washington, D.C. The megacorp dominates the country's politics, with the last few US Presidents being ex-Militech executives. The country focuses much of its budget into Militech, a secret not kept from the population. However a power struggle has been present for decades with the Arasaka Corporation controlling much of the economy and protection of the Free States.

The rebranding of the country as the New United States of America was completed sometime between the end of the Fourth Corporate War and 2040, when president Elizabeth Kress restructured the NUSA.[3] In 2069, Kress' successor, Rosalind Myers, instigated the Unification War to reclaim the Free States. By 2077, the NUSA was the 24th largest economy in the world, and held only a sliver of its former influence in international affairs.[4]

Japan (日本; Nippon or Nihon, which means "land of the rising sun" or, literally, ""sun origin") is a country and major power in Cyberpunk. It consists of 47 prefectures distributed into 8 regions, as well as various territorial possessions across the globe and is one of the largest economic and military superpowers in world.[2] Japan is a very high tech country and has an ancient culture with many traditions. The Japanese archipelago is located in East and North East Asia.[3]

The country has the highest per-capita consumption of cybernetics of any country in the world, and is at the forefront of research and design. They also have on average the highest percentage of full borg conversions, both private and corporate. The highly urbanized country is also home to the Corporate cities, where zaibatsus and their related companies all cluster around important plants, family clans, other zaibatsus and yakuza. As war raged on in the Americas many refugees fled to Japan, raising the population and crime rates. While the country is still considered generally safe, many areas had been cut off or abandoned by the government. Japan's influence on the world can be seen everywhere with many people adopting their culture, religion, and various business practices. However many places sought to fight against their influence such as Germany.

Arasaka, the world's most influential and powerful megacorporation, is headquartered in Tokyo. Arasaka dominates much of Japan's politics, economy, and policing, and has enjoyed fluctuating control over much of the "third world" - a term commonly assigned to United States of America[1][4] - throughout the 21st century. An internal power struggle persisted for decades as other Japanese corporations, such as Far Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere, competed with Arasaka. Overseas, however, Arasaka maintained the title of the largest exporter of Japanese-made goods.

When the American military left the Pacific Rim, the SDF filled in the void of the new military power in charge, now supplied by the top manufacturers: Arasaka, Tsunami Defense Systems and Towa. The military is strong and advanced, however still outnumbered.

Japan has solid relations with Taiwan.[5][6] They also have strong trade relations with the NUSA and helps keep their economy stable.[1]

World War II (1945)
In both World Wars, the United States tried to remain neutral but ended up on the side of the Allies. In World War II, it was the bombing of Pearl Harbor by the Japanese that forced the US to enter the war. The US developed nuclear weapons and used 2 of them to nuke Japan, effectively ending the war and starting the Cold War with the communist Soviet Union.

The End of the Cold War (1989 – 1994)
By the end of the 1980s, it was evident that the United States was struggling. Most social norms had dissolved under an all-engulfing wave of competing special interest groups, media-fueled fads, and an overall "me first" worldview.[3] The fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 hearkened the end of the Cold War that had consumed the United States for the greater part of the 20th century. Conflict, however, soon resumed with the start of the First Central American War in 1990. The United States engaged in interventionist actions in Panama, Nicaragua, Honduras, and El Salvador. Military forces were sent to secure the Panama Canal Zone from an ex-U.S. puppet dictator.[2] 1991 saw a Pyrrhic victory in a U.S. invasion of Iraq.[1]

The Treaty of 1992 witnessed the establishment of the European Economic Community and the creation of the Eurodollar. The United States declined to enter in what some called "paranoid isolationism". Protective European tariffs and unfair trade practices negatively impacted the American economy.[2] The U.S. engaged in the anti-EEC "Quiet War."[1] That same year, in an attempt to end the War on Drugs, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency spread several designer plagues worldwide targeting coca and opium plants. The governments of Chile and Ecuador soon collapsed, and a savage drug war erupted between Eurocorp-backed dealers and the DEA across the Americas. Protests against the war result in rioting in major U.S. cities. A year later, Colombian drug-lords detonate a small, tactical nuclear device in New York City, killing 15,000.[2]

By 1994, the homeless population on the streets had skyrocketed to 21 million. The technical revolution had further torn the economy apart, creating two radically divergent classes—a wealthy, technically oriented, materially acquisitive group of Corporate professionals; and a down-class of homeless, unskilled, blue-collar workers.[3]

The Crash of '94 and the Collapse (1994 – 2000)
The World Stock Market Crash of '94 sent the United States into a major depression. Within two years, the United States was overwhelmed by homelessness, unemployment, and corruption. Many city governments declared bankruptcy or collapsed. Controlled by the machinations of the Gang of Four—a powerful lobby comprised of the United States intelligence community and wealthy industrialists—the country descended into chaos. By this point, one in four Americans were homeless, and hundreds of thousands rioted. Nomads appeared on the West Coast and soon spread across the nation, along with the first appearance of boostergangs. Fed up with government inability to solve the crisis, citizens lynched hundreds of criminal defense attorneys.[2] Military units were deployed on the streets to keep the peace.[1]

During this time, Richard Night founded company known as Night International, and began to plan an ideal new city — an environment that would be controlled and would be ultimately safe from the ravages tearing the world apart. He founded the urban community, Coronado City, in Del Coronado Bay, California

On August 17, 1996, both the President and Vice President were killed in separate campaign stops in Maine and California respectively. The Speaker of the House was undergoing bypass surgery and the president pro tempore of the Senate refused the position of president; possibly aware of a corporate plot. In reality, the President and VP were killed by the NSA—one of the cornerstones of the Gang of Four—although the truth of their involvement would not be known until 2004; which would result in the ouster of the Gang.[1][2]

Stalled, Secretary of Defense Jonathan Seward was asked to address Congress. In his three o'clock afternoon address, Seward declared martial law and suspended the Constitution. Units of Central Command were positioned around the Capitol. The United States had officially transferred power to an emergency, interim military government.[1][2] The new military government soon found itself at odds against the FBI, CIA, NSA, and DEA which had acted with impunity for decades with secretive black ops and black budgets. A covert game of cat-and-mouse would ensue over the coming years that would greatly damage the intelligence community and US military standing across the globe.[1]

The 1997 Mideast Meltdown reduced world oil supply by half; causing prices to skyrocket in the United States. A year later, Neo-Luddites bombed airports, factories, freeways, and mass transit terminals across the nation. The Drought of '98 reduced the Midwest to parched grasslands, imperiling the U.S. food supply and ending the family farm. The same year, a 10.5 quake stroke Los Angeles, with an estimated 65,000 killed and ocean inundating 35% of the city.[2]

By 1998, the Arasaka Corporation made it's way in construction of regional offices and providing more jobs for Americans.[5]

1999 saw end of martial law, however military rule continued. A sense of "order" would not be restored until 2002.[2]

Early 2000s
Fear of Y2K lead to the formation of Millennium Cults, resulting in mass orgies of suicide and violence on Jan 1, 2000. Later that year, massive firestorms raged over the northwestern United States, destroying millions of acres of farm and grassland.[2] Simultaneously, the Wasting Plague that hit America and Europe, kill an estimate of 14 million people before a vaccine was finally created in Japan.[1] 2001 saw the creation of WorldSat and the Net, radically altering both American and global communications, business, and culture for decades to come.[2]

In 2002, Mr. Seward was killed in a riot (in reality an operative in a joint CIA/NSA op). General William Newell, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, took his place.[1] Tensions rose between the USSR and the United States after a mutated plant virus wiped out Canadian and Soviet crops. U.S. agribusiness crops survived due to a new biological counter-agent. The USSR accused the United States of biological warfare. This, coupled with the continuation of the "Evil Empire" policies of the Cold War ultimately lead to the U.S. assault on the Soviet weapons platform MIR XIII in 2008. The European Space Agency intervened resulting in a six-hour orbital war between the "Euros" and the "Yanks." Colorado Springs is destroyed when a rock from the Tycho Massdriver lands on the city; ultimately resulting in the establishment of an uneasy peace.

During 2000s, the Arasaka Corporation, the large Japanese conglomerate, was buying out many small bankrupting companies as well as offering thousands of Americans jobs within the United States. Arasaka invested heavily into it's American branch, and was also one of the leading Megacorps to invest into Richard Night's dream of the perfect city. Saburo Arasaka became known as a man of the people, someone who stood up for the American people when the government failed them. Many factories and American cities were visited by Saburo himself to congratulate and meet with the American public, helping them gain a sense of former prosperity.[5]

By 2003, the Second Central American War began and quickly devolved into a a complete disaster for the United States, resulting in major reform and the ouster of the Gang of Four in an Army/CIA counter-coup.[1] Washington D.C. was encircled by military troops fighting remnants of the Gang. However, elements of the Gang were not fully eliminated until four years afterwards, although by that point large parts of the Gang had already sold out to the corporations.[1]

Efforts at restoring democratic rule were halted when on November 5, 2005, presidential appointee Henry Jacobi was assassinated. Evidence strongly pointed to Mantoga, Inc. involvement and instigation. On November 17, 2005, the corporation was given four hours to completely leave the United States, and was ultimately destroyed by the United States military in Operation Big Stick after they refused. The event later came to be known as the Mantoga Incident.[1]

In 2009, an abortive takeover attempt by U.S.-backed terrorists of the Crystal Palace space station is detected and thwarted by the ESA after it drops another orbital rock off the coast of Washington as a warning.[2] In 2012, a bioplague killed over 1700 in Chicago, the city was left in ruins.[1]

During this time individual states began to break away from the main body of the country. Local state governments were fed up with the ineffectual and dictatorial actions of the bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. as well as the exposed machinations of the Gang of Four. The first was California, north and later south, then Texas, Oregon, Washington and then North and South Dakota. These new "Free States" set their own laws, trade arrangements, and no longer sent their collected taxes back to Washington, D.C.[3]

Aftermath 2010s
During the massive confusion in the embattled capital, many of the Free States took the opportunity to secede, leading to a massive upsurge in states' rights as a whole. Since most of the states in the Union needed military force to put down rioting and Nomad violence, they simply "nationalized" the military reserve elements in addition to all Guard elements, which were under the local governor's command anyway.

These state armies were willing to cooperate with the military government in terms of law enforcement and other military action, so long as the issue concerned the state in question directly. This remains true to the present day. These states of the former United States quickly realized that without the federal government they were alone. In the wake of the collapse, the states were unable to cope without the massive support that a federal tax base granted them. Without the support, chaos reigned. Think for a minute about pre-collapse America. Almost thirty percent of citizens were receiving some sort of federal assistance, when all federal social programs stopped: Medicare, Medicaid, Food Stamps, Welfare, Unemployment, Social Security, Subsidies, and Price Controls, everything. Consider the devastation. That was only a fraction of the damage done to America in the Collapse. Quite simply, everything that we understood about how society works no longer applied. 100 million were dead, and no fewer than 25-50 million were disenfranchised, homeless nomads--or worse (i.e., boosters) by the year 2000.[3]

The New America in the 2020s
Life in America during martial law was one of the bloodiest periods in human history. Stalin's purges in the late 1940's pale by comparison. Over 100 million Americans died in only fifteen years. The Vietnam War only cost 3,000,000 lives, and that took over thirty years. Americans died from violence, pestilence, or starvation. Most of those deaths could have been avoided, had the states cooperated with each other.[3]

The country still had sufficient resources to feed itself, though not in the style to which it was accustomed. The individual states, scared and foolishly confident due to their new military strength, hoarded their own resources. Strict border policy and huge tariffs all led to disaster. Other problems made things even worse.

Many states were home to large numbers of nonproductive citizens at the beginning of the Collapse. Florida and New York were two of the worst hit. The welfare system quickly reached a state of attrition. States that instituted stringent controls in the beginning, like California, Texas, Utah and Nevada were much more prepared to deal with an extended crisis. But many states simply tried to bury their heads in the sand. Many felt the crisis would end quickly; it did not. Although many other states soon instituted systems similar to the standard NorCal Citizen Identification process by 1998, it was far too late. By the year 2000 over 150,000,000 were disenfranchised. Probably 75% of these died.[3]

Aftermath of the Fourth Corporate War (2022 – 2045)
The United States had lost its superpower status. Functionally it became a dictatorship run by President Elizabeth Kress, an ex-president of Militech, and had been so since her State of Emergency during the Fourth Corporate War. Though local elections later resumed, there were no national elections and there wouldn't be until there was a treaty between the Free States and what remained of the New United States.[6]

The military was now organized into Combined Operations Groups (COGs); which were task forces combining aircraft, ships, infantry, and armor. Whose main mission was to deal with threats to the interests of the federal government and to the BosWash Corridor (Boston–Washington). Several of the COGS had broken away and have became mercenary armies, operating as well-armed marauding raiders, or running their own mini-kingdoms.

The New United States of the mid 21st century was similar to what it was in the late 19th century. The federal government based in Washington, D.C. controlled the "civilized" East Coast. Operating as the regional government for the BosWash Corridor. The federal government still consisted of the same three branches (executive, judicial, and legislative) but it had little to no power past the Mississippi River, and nearly all of its members came from either the East or the Midwest.

West of the Mississippi River was the "Wild West" and running from Seattle to Mexico is an unincorporated West Coast. These territories were for all intents and purposes on their own, hiring mercenary armies or local militias to keep the peace. An interlocking system of power blocs and local factions maintained the Night City sprawl.

On the West Coast is the Pacifica Confederation, a loose union formed by Northern California, British Colombia, Oregon, Washington, and Idaho. Within their territory were several major US military bases with permanent leases, but which exercised little control over the locals. The Pacifica Confed was busy rebuilding its infrastructure. Night City had been able to survive as a free "city state" due to the alliance, functioning as a free trade zone for them.[6]

The Unification War (2069 – 2070)
Main article: Unification War
The Unification War, sometimes referred to as the Metal War(s), was an armed conflict between the New United States of America (NUSA) and an alliance of seceded states known as the Free States. The war started in January 2069 and ended in June 2070. At the end of 2069, the newly elected NUSA President, Rosalind Myers, presented a unification program to extend federal rule over the rogue Free States under the pretense of strengthening the nation. Most of the independent states opposed unification. Councilman Lucius Rhyne was worried the conflict would soon reach Night City, and through his contacts and connections pleaded for the Arasaka Corporation to return and protect them from the invasion. At the dawn of an impending invasion of Night City, Arasaka arrived in time with a supercarrier in Coronado Bay forcing the NUSA and Militech troops to retreat.

Following Arasaka's intervention, the NUSA and the Free States signed a treaty known as the Treaty of Unification in Arvin, South California, ending the Unification War. The treaty ensured the Free States would remain autonomous but would have to participate in the new federal government and hostilities among themselves would have to cease. President Myers agreed to this treaty because she feared Arasaka's increasing involvement could escalate the conflict into one the New United States could not afford. Both sides claimed victory; the Free States preserved their independence and the NUSA believed they were closer than ever to the reunification of America.

Although the Unification War was officially ended, leading AI analytics software predicts another "hot war" will likely to break out by 2080 with a 74% confidence rate.[7]

Restlessness (2077)
By 2077, relations between the NUSA and the Free States had only deteriorated. Following suicide bombings in NUSA bases in New Mexico and Oklahoma, President Myers openly blamed the Republic of Texas (which did not sign the treaty and remained independent) and ordered retaliatory bombings on airports in the Texan cities of Wellington and El Paso. Both sides expressed a desire to avoid conflict, but bookies put the odds on a border war breaking out in the near future at 3-to-1.[4]

Within Alaska corn harvests had dropped by 80% from last years yield in 2076. Local authorities were obligated to provide nearly 80 million bushels of their crop to Biotechnica.

Arasaka was now able to function within the NUSA once again, however its influence still only stretched to the Free States and Night City. The NUSA was under the control of President Myers, former CEO of Militech. It was common knowledge the NUS was Militech's largest costumer and with it, the corporation became very powerful holding much control over the country. Many Americans were against the idea of Meyers being re-elected, in fear of having a country that would only serve their suppliers.

The Western Corporate States (WSC) revealed a new Visa program for people who planned to relocate would first need to find a sponsor from among WCS-sponsored companies. Following a twenty year long employment period within WCS, Visa-holders could then earn the right to permanent residence, marriage license, and single-child permits.

In Detroit, the city reached new economic height after decades of decay. The city's numerous landfills, abandoned buildings, and industrial zones had become rich in resources that were highly valued in the economy of 2070s. Thousands of migrants began relocating to Detroit in search of old technology manufactured from around the turn of the century. This was in spite of the hazardous conditions and gang violence within the city limits.

Militech announced it's plans for building a new colony on Mars. The proposed facility would hold residential, scientific, and industrial areas.

Further west, Night City found itself in a precarious position. Though it became an independent city-state after the Unification War, Night City was positioned between North California, the most militarily powerful of the Free States, and South California, a staunch supporter of the NUSA. Night City's official policy was to try to avoid involvement in the bitter rivalry between the two Californias and ignore NUSA overtures at annexation, but the citizenry was gradually becoming polarized between pro-independence and pro-NUSA rhetoric.[4]

Database Entry
NEW UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
New United States of America
The original United States of America – divided by bitter internal conflicts and stretched apart by dissident forces – finally collapsed into a potpourri of warring states and sprawling, abandoned territories. But when the dust finally settled and disaster became the new normal, the old dreams of unity and national pride were once more united under a new-and-improved star-spangled banner, behind which stands the New United States of America (NUSA). Rosalind Myers, the Union's incumbent president, is hell-bent on bringing the rest of the country in line, no matter the cost. Myers's government is supported militarily by Militech, so much so, in fact, that it's hard to tell where the state ends and the corporation begins. In that respect, not much has changed.[4]

Geography, climate, and environment
The United States is one of the largest countries on Earth in terms of landmass, ranking near Russia and China in total size. The coastal plain of the Atlantic seaboard gives way to deciduous forests and the Appalachian Mountains. The Appalachian Mountains divide the Eastern Seaboard with the Great Plains and Mississippi River of the Midwest. Further west lie the Rocky Mountains; to their south lies the desert of the southwestern states; to their north lie the wet, temperate forests of Oregon and Washington states.[1]

By the late 20th century, corporate exploitation and shortsighted policies had degraded environmental conditions within America and the rest of the globe. Acid rain and changing climates made it harder to grow crops, keep soil fertile, and irrigate effectively. These culminated in the 1998 dustbowls of the Midwest. By 2000, the previously profitable fruit-growing areas of California, Texas, and Florida were economic wastelands.[1]

Wildlife
America houses a large amount of diverse species, although environmental collapse has resulted in large numbers of extinctions and population losses. The 1997 toxic spill wiped out salmon in the Pacific Northwest, crippling the local economy.[1] Mutated creatures are known to roam outside of populated areas.[2]

Demographics
Population
The last official census conducted in 1990 listed the official U.S. population at 248,709,873 people. The U.S. population then plummeted post-Collapse by roughly 100 million people between 1990-2000 if the death toll established by the MIC is correct. This equates to roughly 1/3 of the population dying in a span of ten years.[1]

After the Collapse, society centralized for protection. Isolated rural towns were largely abandoned in a large migration to urban centers. The lack of protection and difficulty of acquiring food and medicine in the hinterlands has left large parts of America filled with ghost towns. As such, the vast majority of the population live in urban centers.[1]

All individuals are required to have a State Identification Number (SIN) located on a write-only and highly encrypted card. Without a SINCARD an individual cannot get a license, passport, register to vote, or get any type of job. They are not allowed civil rights, and during the martial law period were treated as prisoners of war. Millions of disenfranchised individuals exist in 2020 America; many losing their privileges as punishment, being a deserter, or even being the child of a known criminal. Roughly 70% of Nomads do not have a SIN. These people are known as Zeroes, among other names. By 2000, there were roughly 25-50 million Nomads in America.[1]

Religion
Main article: Religion
The popularity of American religion has fluxed greatly owing to major scandals in various religious organizations, and led the abandonment of organized churches wholesale in the '90s. The years of martial law and ecological collapse saw a "grassroots" resurgence of religion in American life.[1]

Some of the most popular religions in America include Islam (both Shia and Sunni) and Christianity. An Islamic mosque can be found in almost every major city, and is very popular among the urban poor. Christianity is divided into three major sects: a more liberal and relaxed Roman Catholic Church, Mormonism in the West, and Fundamentalist Christianity in the form of Evangelicalism in Dixie.[1]

A sect of Jainism has emerged in America from Indian immigrants, along with a resurgence of Buddhist practice. Judaism has fared less well, and the breakdown of U.S.-Israeli relations had left the few Jews left in America feeling isolated.[1]

Fringe religions include but are not limited to: Scientology, the Beatified Circle of the Celts, The Immortal Pyramid, Worshipers of the Night, and the Coalition Against the Satanic Fellowship of the Gods. There even exists a church devoted to the worship of Elvis Presley.[1]

Family structure
The post-Collapse United States has undergone a major shift in the family unit with the destruction of the nuclear family. The family unit, which had already fragmented by the 1980's, was replaced by three distinct new structures dependent on social and economic class. The Neotribals representing the Nomad families; the Boosters representing the Streetpunk scene; and the mixed nuclear/Metafamily representing the new "Corporate Children."

From 1960 to 2020, the number of Americans in a classic, two-parent nuclear family had gone from 60 to 2 percent. The deaths of 100 million during the Collapse meant that roughly every one in three of these deaths was a parent. Almost half the families were sole-parent families. With other socioeconomic factors in play this orphaned roughly thirty million children in eighteen months. Roughly ten million were unable to support themselves and died; another ten million died attempting to survive under martial law; the remaining ten million were set loose in society without the socialization skills of an adolescent amidst the violence and chaos, and many died.[1]

By 2020, roughly eleven percent of the American population had grown up with no real family structure. This segment of the population also reproduced at twice the rate of other Americans.[1]

Health
Several plagues, viral outbreaks, sky-high poverty rates and lack of affordable, quality healthcare have greatly impacted the average US life expectancy. Many individuals do not have health insurance, and virtually all hospitals are corporate-owned. The largest provider of paramedical care is Trauma Team International. In the event of death, the Lifeline Act of 1997 allows a potential source of spare parts to be delivered to a donor center, where those with a donor card receive a bounty based on the body parts and their condition.[1]

The Department of Health, Education, and Human Services, in coordination with the Centers for Disease Control, National Institute of Health, and the Food and Drug Administration, regulate and are responsible for ensuring the well being of American citizens; although they are largely understaffed and underfunded.[1]

During the chaos of the Collapse, AIDS 2, the Wasting Plague, the Typhoid Beta complex and starvation killed millions of Americans. Nuclear radiation has also impacted the livelihood of American citizens. From the 1993 New York City nuclear attack irradiating the local environment; the 1994 Pittsburgh Meltdown resulting in 257 deaths and soaring cancer rates for the next ten years; and years of short-sighted hazardous waste disposal at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation in Washington State, ultimately leading to an 'incident' in 2004 resulting in contamination of the Hanford area and the Columbia river.[1]

In 2077, the average life expectancy is 53 years of age. Due to the sky high rate of violence in the country, a majority of people are unable to live past 53 unless they are apart of the 1%.

Education
The American education system is operated by state and local governments and regulated by the Department of Health, Education, and Human Services. A lack of funding has resulted in the rapid deterioration of the public schooling system. By 2020 many states simply do not have a public school system. As a result, gang membership has risen drastically.[1]

Any schooling in rural areas focuses on day-to-day survival rather than mathematics or higher education. Nomad culture and its deep respect for teachers has seen better rates of education among Nomad children; and some Nomad schools open their doors to strangers.[1]

Corporate education is an alternate for those that cannot attend public schooling, and is fairly complete. However, it is known for producing very high stress levels and rates of suicide. Furthermore, individuals are subjected to behavior modification, loyalty testing, indoctrination and propaganda; and all curriculum is based on an individual's aptitudes.[1]

Virtual reality is another possible method of schooling, however it has the potential to be the most damaging to the psyche. Chips and other inorganic means of consuming information are likewise also known to be dangerous due to the effects of cyberware on children; and corporate ad-loops are rampant in the chip market. Self-education is one of the hardest methods of all owing to the difficulty of finding materials and accurate, unbiased information.[1]

Higher education
Most urban areas only have one university. Some of the most prestigious universities include but are not limited to: Stanford, Yale, University of FC Berkeley, USC, MIT, Cal Tech, and the Princeton Institute.

American universities are notorious for being extremely expensive and having very long waiting lists. Since there is no common education system there is no common education theory. As a result, the process has fragmented, mostly due to new technology.[1]

Government and politics
Main article: Government of the NUSA
Political divisions (2020)
The United States was a federal republic of 51 states in 2020. They lost most of their territories and overseas possessions but still maintained their hold over Guam and the Panama Canal Zone.[1]

The 51 U.S. states and other territories, in alphabetical order as they were divided by the Regional Committees:

Regions	States
Appalachia	Kentucky, North Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia
Dixie	Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina
Free States	Alaska, Nevada, Northern California, Southern California, Texas, Utah
Great Plains	Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming
Midwest	Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio, Wisconsin
Northeast	Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont
Pacific Northwest	Hawaii, Idaho, Oregon, Washington
West	Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma
Other territories	Guam, Panama Canal Zone
Cyberpunk 2020 - Datafortress 2020 - Nomad Markets Map bw
Cyberpunk-USA-Map-2020
Political divisions (2077)
By 2077, although the New United States hadn't completely subdued the remaining Free States. After the Unification War, much of the territory was restructured.

It's unknown if by 2077 the US still held/had recovered control over old territories like with Guam or the Panama Canal Zone.

Regions	States
Eastern States	Appalachia	Kentucky, North Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia
Midwest &
Great Plains	Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, Wisconsin
Northeast	Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont
South	Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, South Carolina
Western States	Government-aligned	Southern California, Utah
Free States of the Pacific Northwest	Idaho, Oregon, Washington
Semi-autonomous Free States	Arizona, Colorado, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Northern California, Wyoming
Miscellaneous	Autonomous
Free States	Night City, Texas
Non-contiguous States	Alaska, Hawaii
The map below shows the NUSA-government controlled territories in the east (in royal blue); the Western States - including the semi-autonomous Free States (in slate blue), and two individual government-aligned states (in royal blue) - the Pacific Northwest (in steel blue and misnamed as "The Pacific Confederation"), the Republic of Texas (in Indian red), Night City (marked in yellow and misallocated slightly north of its supposed position), and the Native American territories (in various shades of blue).

Map of the New United States of America
Map of the New United States of America
Parties and elections
The United States has operated under a two-party system for most of its history. The largest parties in 2020 are the Republicans and the Democrats. Along with them exist over 300 smaller, but no less committed, power groups. The two largest of these are the Independent Party and One World Party. The former was created as a response to dissatisfaction with the two-party system, while the latter was a corporate-backed attempt at creating a free market economy.[1]

The concept of voting and elections are relatively new for those of the generation who knew nothing but military rule from 1996 to 2008. In the twelve years since, the issue of voting became regional, as most major issues have. The Free States hold voting and self-determination in high regard, and weekly referendums are not uncommon. The citizens elect the State Assembly, which in turn elects the Governor/President of said state. Terms are generally four years. The Free State Consul is elected by the Governor/Presidents of the Free States. He also serves a term of four years.[1]

The citizens of the northwest are almost as well off as the citizens of the Free States. In Dixie, voting is usually held at gunpoint, if at all; and many lack basic rights. Many poorer regions of America have adequate representation.[1]

By 2077, the political landscape of the New United States had changed. The Federalist Party, represented by the hawkish President Rosalind Myers, advocated the full re-unification of the country and an end to the Free State system. It is unclear what, if any, opposition parties existed. Night City's Mayor Lucius Rhyne and Deputy Mayor Weldon Holt were members of the Devolutionist Party, but it is unknown if this was a national party or a party that was limited to Night City's local politics.[4]

Foreign relations
The New United States has an established structure of foreign relations, although many alliances of the pre-Collapse world have changed. After 1992 and the collapse of NATO as a result of the Quiet War, the NUSA has a strained relationship with Western Europe after its rapprochement with the Soviets. Many developed countries embargoed the United States owing to currency manipulations and stock market fraud, triggering the Crash of '94. Many embargoes were not lifted until 1998, and by 2020 the NUSA still accused the EEC of protective tariffs and unfair trade practices. The New United States maintains strong trade relations with Japan, China, Korea, and India.[1]

Much of America's global influence was lost following the Collapse; much of the change due to the loss of a stabilizing economic and political force. Mexico was hit harder by the Crash, and Canada was one of the countries least affected. The New United States maintained large trade relations with Canada owing to rising global temperatures making it an agricultural paradise.[1] Corporations occasionally plant crops in Canadian territory, an issue that slightly strains NUS-CAN relations.[2]

In the Caribbean, the NUS Virgin Islands had largely been abandoned and were a haven for piracy. Cuba is essentially owned by corporations. Puerto Rico was rocked by civil war after the collapse, but had somewhat stabilized by 2020. The U.S. held the Panama Canal Zone against ongoing guerrilla action, and has a hands-off approach to Central American affairs. The New United States has largely retreated from the Pacific Rim, with Japan filling the vacuum of power and supporting the U.S. economy; although tensions remained from the trade wars of the '90s. Guam had maintained its military base. The New United States signed the Mutual Defense Treaty of 2009 with the rising power of China as well as participated in military drills with but not limited to Japan and Australia.

Government finance
The Internal Revenue Service ceased to exist in 1998 when citizens, furious at their government and the machinations of the Gang of Four, simply refused to pay their taxes. Eventually, all of America stopped paying their taxes; and with no money or resources to issue a rebuttal the IRS was dissolved. The Collapse and the deaths of roughly 100 million citizens, along with 25 to 50 million Zeroes meant that the tax-paying population in 2000 was roughly 100 to 120 million. As such, the tax structure was destroyed. As of 2020, collecting taxes is the primary responsibility of the states, of which the federal government receives a percentage. The only taxes collected at the federal level are on trade, which is handled by the Commerce Department. Withholding taxes to the government is a crime, and is handled by the Justice Department.

SIN cards are the only method by which the government can keep track of its taxpayers. To retain a SIN, a citizen must pay ten percent of his wages as taxes. There are no deductions or reductions in tax. Corporations that support or trade services with states and municipalities may have their employees exempted. Military personnel on active duty are exempt with a 10-20% reduction in overall salary. Benefits and perks paid fully by the employer are not considered taxable income.[1]

Military
Main article: New United States Armed Forces
Despite major losses during the post-Collapse period, the New United States Armed Forces, led by the Department of Defense, is still a potent fighting force and as of 2020 strong enough to outmatch any corporate security force despite being outnumbered by them. The DoD consists of four branches: the Army, Aerospace Force, Navy, and Marines. Reorganized into Combined Operational Groups in 1992-93, the military patrols the nation from both internal and external threats. The United States Navy is considered the most powerful navy in the world. The USAF maintains a large force of killer satellites, concealed drones, work habitats and massive battle stations in Low Earth Orbit. While the EEC is considered America's largest threat, the U.S. nuclear arsenal ensures that any EEC mass-driver attack from Luna will result in the complete destruction of the European mainland.

With the end of the Cold War, the large peacetime military that was maintained since WWII was reduced in size and scope owing to its large cost to the economy. The U.S. military disposed of the large units that used to dominate the battlefields of the world and opted for sets of small, fast, rapid deployment units that could act independently. These units were to incorporate their own organic support and, wherever possible, transport.[1]

Law enforcement and crime
In the United States, law enforcement is largely organized around local police departments, with state police offering broader services. Federal agencies such as the Military Intelligence, Criminal Investigation Divisions have replaced the services of the defunct FBI. The Department of Justice oversees the Federal court system, among other agencies. Supplementing local police forces are heavily armored corporate police squads which can be hired and rented to patrol certain areas of a city.

The CIA LAWdiv attempts to keep track of crime on a national scale with retinal scanning and DNA work. Owing to the fact that states, corporations and other federal agencies do not typically share information on criminal offences or SIN numbers, criminals are able to "hop" state borders to escape justice.[1]

The United States has an extremely high crime rate, with murder and homicide endemic in urban areas. The ghost towns of central America are described as a new "Wild West." In addition to Vice, Homicide, Burglary and Traffic Squads; Cyberpsycho Squads hunt down cybernetic criminals. During the Collapse of the 1990's, martial law and the suspension of the U.S. Constitution and takeover by the military saw an overall decrease in the amount of crimes that had been occurring before the takeover. Law was handled by military courts, and the death penalty was liberally used for instances of looting. The Military Justice Code was used during the martial law period from 1996-1999. The Code was so effective, it inspired the Uniform Civilian Justice Code which replaced the previous criminal procedures in the United States. The Federal Weapons Statute of 1999 made it illegal to carry submachine guns and other fully automatic weapons, but is largely ignored. Criminals of minor offenses are often beaten up by police rather than arrested.

The United States has one of the largest prison populations in the world. Handled by the Bureau of Prisons, prisons are overcrowded and deadly. Officials have largely given up on rehabilitation and are mostly concerned with penning up society's "mad dogs," as they call it. Many prisons force prisoners into "braindance," suspended in cryo tanks for two to three years on repeat interface loop programs. The simplest method of punishment is execution, and most states have a State Executioner who is also empowered to hunt down escaped criminals from Death Row.

The underfunded educational system and the lack of public schools in many states has resulted in a rapid rise in gang membership. Almost 90 percent of streetkids are involved in some form of youth-gang; either simplistic and feral child-families; a block gang; or as a junior affiliate to a larger Boostergang.[1]

Economy
The United States has a capitalist mixed economy. Globalization has resulted in an interconnected global economy. On a larger scale the economy is more controlled than before the Collapse, with increased bureaucracy resulted from both international trade and interstate trade with the resurgence of states' rights. Roughly 30% of the GNP is subsumed in the "black market." Not all trading is illegal, but "grey" when the goods and services are traded outside of taxed channels. 20% of the global economy is based on the exchange of information and entertainment.[1]

By 2020, American industry is primarily divided into the manufacturing, technology, and service industries. The manufacturing industry has returned due to the low standard of living in America along with the lack of labor unions. The cyberware, nanotech, and biological industries within the technological sector are the highest-profit businesses in the American economy.

The crash of the World Stock Exchange in 94' and the troubles of the World Bank meant the United States had no one to borrow money from to pay off its extremely high national debt. Federal Bonds were cashed in so fast the U.S. Government could not print money fast enough, and the value of the dollar plummeted.[1]

Science and technology
The United States has been responsible for many technological innovations throughout the Cyber Age. The first arcology was constructed in Jersey City in 1991, and that same year the first artificial muscle fiber was developed at Stanford Research Center, and Biotechnica developed CHOOH2, the predominant fuel for the next century. Cyberlimbs were fully adopted by the U.S. military in 2006. A year later, braindance is developed at UC Santa Cruz.

By 2001, the United States played a role in the foundation of the WorldSat Communications Network. By 2013, the U.S. was instrumental with the formation of Netwatch with the EEC. That same year, the United States was host to the formation of the first, true artificial intelligence created by Microtech at Sunnyvale.

Income, poverty, and wealth
Post-Collapse America has a two-tiered economy and an extremely small and shrinking middle class. By 2020, the United States has one of the highest levels of income inequality in the world, with 90% of the wealth controlled by 10% of the population. These 10% make up the ultra-wealthy; 15% make up the middle class (30,000,000 people); 10% are on the poverty borderline; and 65% live in squalid misery and third-world conditions. This is in stark contrast to Europe and parts of Asia in which 40% of the population is considered middle-class.[1]

By 1990, roughly 30% of all citizens were receiving some form of government assistance. The Collapse saw the end to all social programs in America, including but not limited to: Medicare, Medicaid, Food Stamps, welfare, unemployment benefits, subsidies and price controls.

The average salary reported in 2018 was 4,000eb a year; not including Zeroes or parts of the corporate payroll. AI assessments place the actual statistic somewhat lower at 3,200eb a year. The average corporate salary fell at about 6,000eb per year. Benefits and perks added about 2,000eb to this figure. The average Nomad receives roughly 3,000eb of in-kind goods or services. The average government salary is 5,000eb.

While the average salary has decreased, the purchasing power of the average American has remained relatively constant since the 1990s. The purchasing power of the Eurodollar is approximately twice the purchasing power of the U.S. dollar; which is comparable to the Japanese Yen. Making 200eb a week is comparable to making $400 1990 U.S. dollars a week. A loaf of bread that would cost $1 in 1990 USD has been replaced with the kibble bar, which in itself costs a half a Eurodollar in 2020 EB. Many American businesses only accept the Eurodollar as a form of payment.[1]

The cost of living space in urban areas is at a premium. The development of the mallplex and arcology-style communities has drastically increased the population density of urban centers. Extremely cheap apartments go for roughly 600eb a month unfurnished, soundproof apartments cost 200eb more. Cube-style apartments with fold-out furniture and built-in appliances run for about 1200eb a month. Living in a Combat Zone halves these prices. Real apartments are out of reach for the majority of Americans, usually requiring a 5,000eb deposit and costing 2,500eb a month. As such, subsidized corporate housing comprises the vast majority of people who are able to afford a decent, furnished apartment. In 2020 an average three-bedroom, two-bathroom house costs 850,000eb.

Examples of Corporate statism in America are largely relegated to Corp Zones in major cities and research arcologies. It remains illegal for corporations to utilize their own currencies, however American employment law allows for 30% of salary to be paid in "marks" within company stores.[1]

Information services
People now live in an era of information. It differs from the pre-Collapse in the area of freedom. Before 1994, the amount of information offered to the average citizen was staggering. Almost any type could be accessed by the use of public libraries, universities, and information services. Many of these systems were free, and so income was not a limiting factor in this. Today, information is treated as a valuable commodity. Corporations and Governments pay other Corporations and Governments for access to their Databanks.

Meanwhile, the average citizen is usually only exposed to headlines and "bites" of information. Add to this relative starvation the fact that most information freely distributed at the consumer level is dripping with propaganda and disinformation. So, at the consumer level, America is made up of citizens who feel informed-even though the vast majority of their information is manufactured and falsified. Almost all programming is a conglomeration of styles called lnfomercialtainment. These shows are long commercials that inform and entertain, from a certain viewpoint.[3]

The Media is a force in the world of 2020. It so permeates the world that fully twenty percent of our global economy is based on the exchange of information and entertainment. At the top of this spectrum are the massive Corporations; well-dressed men in clean offices who buy and sell the trends that shape our fashion and entertainments. In the middle are the lost revolutionaries, the Cyberpunks. They must constantly struggle to delineate the kernel of truth from the chaff of falsehoods. There are some who ride the line. They can afford a few different newsfeeds. They check stories against rival networks. Some have the capital to get an account with Infocomp (for the real dirt, unedited) on the occasions that warrant further investigation. The truth is always available. The price of the truth has just been raised exponentially.[3]

Infrastructure
Transportation
American transportation is built around major metropolitan areas surrounded by relatively empty, deserted ghost towns and wilderness. The civil strife of the Collapse prevented any new revolutions in mass transit from taking place.[2] There is very little non-direct mass transit. Completed in 2008 by the military, the Maglev bullet train runs underground across the nation and connects coast to coast; and is now operated by Planetran company.[1]

The extremely high cost of jet fuel means flights are largely regional, such as from Night City to Seattle. Longer flights are handled by luxury airships known as Dirigible Liners for the rich. Cars, buses, subways, and shuttles are largely used within cities themselves; travel outside of them usually being too dangerous and lacking the necessary infrastructure.

Energy
The United States Department of Energy regulates all aspects of power generation and brokers power between states. The DOE operates the Energy Management Cooperative; a privatized monopoly similar to the postal service of the pre-Collapse. The EMC is traded on the "big boards" of the stock exchanges, and citizens can make a quick dollar trading energy futures without high risk.

After the dustbowls and acid rains of the 1990s, the power industry was able to make a smooth transition from coal-fired generators to a hydrogen-fired refit; cutting costs and reducing environmental damage.[1]

Water supply and sanitation
Virulent bioplagues and the mass graves of the Collapse have ruined almost all natural ground water in the continental United States.[1]

Culture
Food
Main article: Food
Since the Collapse, America has regained the power to feed itself. 70% of all food on the market is kibble, a slang term for all manufactured foods of varying quality. Kibble itself is also one of the almost twenty manufactured foods that make up the majority of the American diet. Developed by Purina Foods for the SouthAm relief effort in the Central American Wars, kibble provides a full day's supply of vitamin and mineral compounds, as well as a minimal amount of complete proteins. It features a fairly dry and grainy consistency similar to animal food, hence the name.[1]

Roughly 28% of foods are SCOPs, or Single Organic Cell Proteins. SCOP is a generic term for any food niche such as hamburger scop, chicken scop, broccoli scop, cheese scop; and generally looks like any other food product. Soya has also been genetically tailored to fit any of the thousands of vegetable protein foods available.

The remaining two percent of foods are considered "fresh, real foods" and are available to the average millionaire. Three percent of the population eats fresh foods more than once or twice a year, with some estimates as low as one percent. With the contamination of almost all fresh water in the United States, fresh foods are grown in sealed hydroponic gardens or imported; parts of Europe, Canada, and the old Soviet Republics are the new breadbasket of the world.

A most all of the food consumed in 2020 is eaten out, and many apartments simply lack a kitchen. Most city streets are filled with vendors. Most vendors sell either handfoods or prepackaged meals, though occasionally a vendor may have on a pot of fresh soup or noodles in broth. Real fresh foods are usually only available in very expensive restaurants.[1]

Literature, philosophy, and visual art
The 21st century has seen three major branches of philosophical thought. Neo-Luddism advocates for a return to a more personal society unmarred by technology, cyberpsychosis, industrial waste, and bio-products. Nihilism is a broad term for those that have given up on humanity entirely, and are sometimes considered a sect of Neo-Luddism. However, while Luddism believes that humanity has control of its destiny, Nihilists believe humans are no longer men, but animals enslaved to the machines we have created. Lastly, technohumanism is a movement popular among the young crowd, academics, some Rockers, and the Net subculture. It primarily holds the belief that man is now in control of their own evolution, and that we cannot comprehend what will come next. As such, technohumanists believe that humanity has the potential to create a new golden age.[1]

Music
Main article: Rockerboy
The American music scene is largely dominated by the Rockerboy, a term for individuals within a movement of political rock. James "Rockerboy" Manson is considered the first Rocker owing to his death in 1997 coining the term. Afraid to perform in America owing to threats from the military government, Manson was clubbed to death at an Amnesty International concert by armed British security thugs; and galvanized a whole generation to become Rockers. One of the first groups was Justifiable Homicide with their first 1998 album Jury Trial. Until the return to civilian rule no Rocker was considered safe.

Johnny Silverhand and Kerry Eurodyne led the post-2008 resurgence of the genre with their band Samurai, and have made it onto the Top Ten. Since then, Rocker music has covered political, social, and economic activism. With the rise of cyberware, songs about technohumanism have found their way into the Rocker scene.[1]

Sports
The '93-'94 Super Bowl saw all pretense of "drug free" professional sports pushed aside, with six players dying in the game. During the collapse, professional sports died for over a decade. Violent blood sports became the norm amidst the chaos. Around roughly 2002, the military government formalized augmented sports. The great stadiums of the pre-Collapse largely disappeared save for the Arrowhead complex in Kansas City, or the Giants stadium in New York; and the "golden age" of professional sports was considered over; with the last Olympic Games held in 1992.

International Soccer was the only sport followed globally, and with the death of nationalism, corporations took over sponsorship of teams such as the Militech Rangers or the OrbAir Flyers. By 2008, the majority of soccer had cybernetic players, thus the ball had to be changed to handle 500 psi impacts. American football had regained popularity by 2020, and remains the most violent sanctioned sport in the country. Many old sports are still played, however usually in scattered and disconcerted states. Golf is still enjoyed by some corporate executives, but combat handball is has largely replaced it and is considered "in." Baseball is a primarily unaugment sport, and almost no cyberware is used at all. While largely unpopular in America, it is the leading sport in Asia for young people.

Gang sports called "sticking" have largely replaced gang wars for minor offenses with bloodshed considered too costly with harsher police methods and killings. The gangs of SoCal largely resolve disputes with a game called "stickball." Combat sports, also known as death sports, are largely common in Nomad and gang cultures. Economic and law enforcement pressures usually keep matches from getting too bloody. The closest thing to a nationwide, big-money death sport is the World Kumite Tournament. Some areas of the world and the Free States sponsor prison-inmate gladiatorial contests, full-contact obstacle courses, martial arts death-duels, and other wargames. While technically illegal, this does not stop the market from supplying demand.[1]

Mass media
Main article: Cyberpunk Mass Media
Mass media in America is privately-owned and operated by corporations. While libraries, databanks, and universities offered free information pre-Collapse, information has since become a commodity. Governments and corporations pay other governments and corporations for use of their databanks. The average citizen can only read the screamsheets, the new newspaper of the 21st century; which is filled with headlines, "bites," propaganda and disinformation; many of it purposely manufactured and falsified. Almost all programming is a conglomeration of styles called Infomercialtainment.

Infocomp is one of the largest, most reliable and most expensive newsfeeds. By 2010 Net 54 controlled 62% of all media in the United States.

The most common form of media in 2020 America is televideo. Holovideo which was beginning to replace televideo.[1]

Major cities
Night City - 6.9 Million
Despite many attempts by the NUSA, Night City has remained an autonomous city state separate from the rest of the country. Night City is one of the newer urban metropolis that was founded in 1996, by Richard Night. Night City is considered a modern multicultural and thriving metropolis of the 21st-Century, overrun by corporations, corruption, organized crime and gang violence. It has wide streets and dense urban skyscrapers which are homes to hundreds of thousands of people. Cultural diversity can be found all over, however it has clear Asian influence dominance. Arasaka effectively controls the city and protects it's borders from outside interference. In 2077, it was considered the most dangerous place to live in the New United States, with crime being doubled than that of the NUSA. Homeless population had risen by 300% in the 2070s. Gang violence are common place and corporate oppression is found throughout.

LA Metroplex - 3.9 Million
Los Angeles Metroplex covers the entire coast from Santa Barbara to San Diego, and stretches as far east as San Bernardino. What was once the entertainment capital of the world, has now become one of the most unpleasant places to live. With the rise in temperatures, the eastern part is all but uninhabitable, people migrated in masses to get away from Death Valley, the Devil's Playground, and other such places leaving them as wastelands. LA controls all of SoCal and was the reason for the separation of California. The weather of LA is hazardous, dense ground fogs mixing with smog to create an acidic, poisonous soup are common place. The city is considered an urban hell, rotten with pollution and acid rain. Downtown LA being the most unpleasant place to be.

New York - 11 Million
New York is the most populated city in the NUSA. Many corporations found opportunities to be had here, with many regional offices appearing in Manhattan. New York was the opposite of LA, experiencing mass snowfall yearly and freezing temperatures so high dead bodies were found on the streets daily. The crime in New York was so high that the US government had to bring in Arasaka to protect the city from utter destruction. The crime rate lowered, but was still high enough to be known as one of the more dangerous cities to live in.

Chicago - 8 million
Chicago was a city hit hard during the Collapse. As 90% of the city was emptied, the remaining population mainly consisted of nomads or gangs looking to make a living. A true husk of what it once was. Algae and overgrowth ran rapid across the city, and the rust on old buildings glared proudly in the sunlight. Eventually in 2020, Storm Technologies Incorporated reconstructed the city, leaving the city with huge sky rocket of 8 million people surpassing Los Angeles, and Night City combined as becoming once retain title second city once again.[citation needed] Chicago eventually reached new height's and helped the world against gangs and crime members with its new megacorporation, Cytech.[8]

Washington D.C. - 700k
Washington, D.C. is a struggling old city that once controlled the politics of the United States before the Collapse. Now the capital city struggles to maintain the current US and tries to regain the power that it once held. Militech effectively controls the city as well as it's politics. However with many of the Free States, and corporate powers at hand, as well as a failing country the old government has so far been unsuccessful in regaining power.

The Free States are a number of autonomous or semi-autonomous states with respect to the New United States of America.[1]

Texas was the first free state, although at the time the term had not yet been coined. The Mideast Meltdown of 1997 and the Drought of '98 put Texans atop a pile of riches, what with their offshore oil wells and extensive food production. This caused a lot of the money in the U.S. to flow into Texas as prices for these commodities skyrocketed. This, in turn, caused most Texans' federal tax burdens to jump by a similar amount, actually leaving Texans with less purchasing power than before. Late in 1998, Sally Ross (the senior Perotista senator), weary of U.S. tax structures, proposed the Ross Bill, which looked to overturn the normal legal precedence of national laws over state laws.

Although the bill was seriously considered by the state government, most thought it would not pass. In early 1999, however, the U.S. passed the Federal Weapons Statute. For the Texans, this was the final straw. The Ross Bill was immediately passed in a special session, and the Federal Weapons Statute was de facto declared invalid within the state's borders. This effectively placed national considerations secondary to local, thereby implying that membership in the union was a matter of convenience for the state. Such a challenge to the Union had not been issued since 1861, and the government responded with immediate and surprising force.

Unfortunately, the national government ignored the fact that Texas held a lot of economic power. Threatening to secede from the Union, Texas cut off interstate shipments of oil, gas, food, and electronics, and stalled the American space program. Texas banks froze national assets and all electronic communications were subjected to severe scrutiny and censorship. Alaska, seeing a window of opportunity, joined the embargo, passing their own version of the Ross Bill in an emergency meeting of their legislature, and further tightening the national supply of food and fuel.

One state could be dealt with, but two powerful states proved to be too much. Strained by these actions, the government sought to avoid direct conflict. National negotiators quickly met with Texan and Alaskan representatives, and between them they managed to come to a compromise, which was the Free State system. This compromise kept the U.S. from fighting another civil war, but other states saw this compromise as the capitulation of the national government to states' interests. In the years following, California (backed by Texan and Alaskan representatives) declared itself a Free State, Nevada bought its free status outright (it is not publicly known how large the price tag was), and Utah was able to declare itself free, mostly because no one really cared whether it did or not.[2]

Japan (日本; Nippon or Nihon, which means "land of the rising sun" or, literally, ""sun origin") is a country and major power in Cyberpunk. It consists of 47 prefectures distributed into 8 regions, as well as various territorial possessions across the globe and is one of the largest economic and military superpowers in world.[2] Japan is a very high tech country and has an ancient culture with many traditions. The Japanese archipelago is located in East and North East Asia.[3]

The country has the highest per-capita consumption of cybernetics of any country in the world, and is at the forefront of research and design. They also have on average the highest percentage of full borg conversions, both private and corporate. The highly urbanized country is also home to the Corporate cities, where zaibatsus and their related companies all cluster around important plants, family clans, other zaibatsus and yakuza. As war raged on in the Americas many refugees fled to Japan, raising the population and crime rates. While the country is still considered generally safe, many areas had been cut off or abandoned by the government. Japan's influence on the world can be seen everywhere with many people adopting their culture, religion, and various business practices. However many places sought to fight against their influence such as Germany.

Arasaka, the world's most influential and powerful megacorporation, is headquartered in Tokyo. Arasaka dominates much of Japan's politics, economy, and policing, and has enjoyed fluctuating control over much of the "third world" - a term commonly assigned to United States of America[1][4] - throughout the 21st century. An internal power struggle persisted for decades as other Japanese corporations, such as Far Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere, competed with Arasaka. Overseas, however, Arasaka maintained the title of the largest exporter of Japanese-made goods.

When the American military left the Pacific Rim, the SDF filled in the void of the new military power in charge, now supplied by the top manufacturers: Arasaka, Tsunami Defense Systems and Towa. The military is strong and advanced, however still outnumbered.

Japan has solid relations with Taiwan.[5][6] They also have strong trade relations with the NUSA and helps keep their economy stable.[1]


Contents
1	History
1.1	Meji Restoration
1.2	World War II
1.3	Post War (1950-1989)
1.4	Crash of '94 and the Collapse (1994-2000)
1.5	2000s
1.6	Fourth Corporate War (2022-2023)
1.7	2040s
1.8	2077
2	Government
2.1	Foreign Relations
2.2	Imperial House
3	Zaibatsus (財閥)
3.1	Family Relationship/Clans
3.2	Keiretsu
4	Military
5	Geography, Climate, & Environment
5.1	Environment
5.2	Climate
5.3	Prefectures
6	Demographics
6.1	Population
6.2	Religion
6.3	Family Structure
6.4	Health
6.5	Education
7	Society
7.1	Salarymen
7.2	Style House Japan
7.3	Androgyny
7.4	Aragoto and Kata
7.5	Food
7.6	Entertainment
8	Economy
8.1	New Yen
8.2	Vehicle Manufactures
8.2.1	Top Car Companies:
8.3	Corporations/Zaibatsus
9	Martial Arts
10	Crime & Gangs
11	Yakuza
12	Law Enforcement & Crime
13	Infrastructure
13.1	Transportation
13.2	Water Supply and Sanitation
13.3	Energy
14	Major Cities
14.1	Tokyo - 57 million
14.2	Osaka - 31 million
14.3	Kyoto - 3.67 million
14.4	Nagoya - 4.19 million
14.5	Sapporo - 4 million
14.6	Fukuoka
14.7	Kobe - 3.4 million
15	Gallery
16	Timeline
16.1	1800s
16.2	1900 - 1990
16.3	1990
16.4	2000
16.5	2010
16.6	2020
16.7	2030
16.8	2040
16.9	2060
16.10	2070
17	References
GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

History
Meji Restoration
During the Meji Restoration, Japan became an industrial giant. The birth of Zaibatsus were present with companies like Fujiwara or Mitsubishi seeing great success. During this Sasai Arasaka founded the Arasaka manufacturing company in 1915.

World War II
Japan entered in a war with the US during World War II, despite early success, they were pushed back and later atomic bombs were dropped on major cities. This resulted in their surrender. After World War II had ended, Japan was devastated. All the large cities (with the exception of Kyoto), the industries and the transportation networks were severely damaged. A severe shortage of food continued for several years.

A new constitution went into effect in 1947: The emperor lost all political and military power, and was solely made the symbol of the state. Universal suffrage was introduced and human rights were guaranteed. Japan was also forbidden to ever lead a war again or to maintain an army, under Article 9. Which was mainly written by the United States. Furthermore, Shinto and the state were clearly separated.[2]

Post War (1950-1989)
With the peace treaty that went into effect in 1952, the occupation ended. Japan's Self Defense Force was established in 1954, accompanied by large public demonstrations. Great public unrest was also caused by the renewal of the US-Japan Security Treaty of 1960.

In 1960, Saburo Arasaka took control of the Arasaka Corporation. After the Korean War, and accelerated by it, the recovery of Japan's economy flourished.[3] The 1970s and 80s saw the country flourish as it became an economic powerhouse and the second largest in the world.

Crash of '94 and the Collapse (1994-2000)
In the 1990s World Stock Market Collapse occurred changing the the world's leading superpowers for good. After the Collapse, the US economy and political power took a dive. In its place Japan became the largest economic power.

The Arasaka Corporation benefited after the crash, and was now in second place of the global 500 list.

The European Economic Community was established in '92, and Japan was the only superpower outside of Europe to join, along with France, Germany, Italy, and the UK.

In 1993, the SDF started research and development of "Cyberwalk" legged vehicle. Foreign Media and Military establishments ridiculed the idea.

In 1995, a grand unification of Ministries and agencies was carried out in within the country. Japan also abolished the pacifist clause (article 9) of the 1947, a decision made by Arasaka backed politicians. This meant Japan was able to have a normal military again with full offensive capabilities. Consequently the US withdrew its military presence in Japan.[5][6] The corruption in the government did not last long afterwards, as the Bald Hill political scandal occurred in 1997 and 60% of the Diet were arrested for bribery charges.

In 1997 numerous Japanese zaibatsus banded together under a banner known as Far Asian Co-prosperity Sphere (FACS). FACS was designed to counter Arasaka has it took more political control over the country. The corruption Arasaka brought on the government was soon taken away due to the effects of FACS, as the Bald Hill political scandal occurred later that year and 60% of the Diet were arrested for bribery charges.

In 1999, the Korean War brought tension in East Asia, but also prosperity. Under the threat of the North Korea's "Nodong 13" nuclear missile, the Arasaka Corporation's "Family Kabuto" personal shelter had made record sales. Officially Japan took a neutral stance on the surface. In reality, Cold War lines were redrawn, and behind-the-scenes aid was supplied, however North and South were too evenly matched.

2000s
Despite the upset of the 90s, Japan was leading the charge in cyberware and commuter development. After the Wasting Plague had torn through Europe and the United States in 1999, finally in the year 2000 a vaccine in Japan was created to end the conflict. In 2001, the Japan Aerospace Bureau was established.

In 2002, the Food Crash wiped out wheat crops worldwide. As disaster swept through the world, Japan along with China, Thailand, and Vietnam made record profits exporting rice, seafoods, and synthetic foods to countries that suffered from the Crash.

As the Korean War continued into the 2000s, a reporter named Thomas Matthews, a WNS Special Correspondent, reported participation by Arasaka troops in the 2nd Korean War. Both Japanese government and General I deny the reports.

In 2007, Yuriko Sujimoto, a graduate student at the University of California at Santa Cruz, invented Braindance.

Japan made solid relations with Taiwan due to their efforts in 2009,[6] which saw Taiwan become an official independent country with the support and protection of them under Arasaka.[5] Shinka Tenno, the Emperor of the country after the death of Showa Tenno, was removed from power later in 2014. This caused a period of Imperial disorder which lasted until for years after.

In 2013, an album, Movie Sound, by High Society Fashion Band and produced by Nippon Telefunken was released. The artist who worked on the album were; Yumiko Tanaka, Hanako Sorayama, and Tetsuo Yamaguchi. The album had mixed reviews from critics, but topped the charts in Japan. As the album proved it was competent dance music that had characterized Japanese pop for the last decade.[7]

In 2015, Japan was officially removed from the EEC, a move that the government had seen coming. To combat it, they established the new yen currency. The Yen War began in Europe, with Germany aiming to limit international corporations in Europe.

In 2017, new ACPA were rolled out simultaneously by Mitsubishi-Sugo and Arasaka. Both used the SegAtari VRI. The Mitsubishi-Sugo MSAS-17 Trooper was designed by popular manga artist Inoue Keuma. The media provided fantastic coverage, and the SDF received many applicants for Trooper positions.

The United States had largely retreated from the Pacific Rim, with Japan filling the vacuum of power and supporting the economies of struggling countries, U.S. being one of them; although tensions remained from the trade wars of the '90s. The United States still participated in military drills with but not limited to Japan and Australia.[1][3] Japanese government unveiled the "Ground SDF Plan for 2020" which would use ACPA, One-Man Tanks, and AVs. The SDF introduced the Mitsubishi-Sugo MBT-18 as the MBT of the 2020's. The National Police Agency started to use the agile and light MSLT-17 ACPA. It was rumored that Mitsubishi-Sugo and Arasaka had developed a semi-humanoid "walking tank" for GSDF trail in 2021.[3]

In 2019, Jinkyoku Tenno ascended the throne in becoming the new Emperor. This marked the end of the period of Imperial "disorder," and Jinkyoku Year 1 began. The popular TV anime series "Sazae-san" had its 50th anniversary. Celebrations were sponsored by Arasaka Security and Science division.

By 2020, Arasaka developed their security division and their forces highly trained at the Arasaka school on the island of Hokkaido, Japan.[5] The Hokkaido Training Camp is the main training facility of thousands of potential recruits.[6] The country of Japan was the world's largest superpower.[6]

Fourth Corporate War (2022-2023)
During the time of the Fourth Corporate War, the Japanese Government was worried about their connection in the war effort. Though not having direct involvement, Arasaka had huge pull and this worried them. Prime Minister Jirou Kikuchi had put its Self Defense Force on alert readying for the inevitable attacks on Arasaka assets. Preparing with anti-invasion exercises, and for the possibility of a Militech-sponsored Chinese invasion. However the Japanese people saw a time of piece in the country with a lack of yakuza and bosozoku interference, as well as the increase defense had proven to be the safest time in Japan's history. Yorinobu Arasaka, the rebel son of Saburo, didn't side with Militech during the war. Instead he played a role in supplying info to the Government of Japan that helped their nationalization of Arasaka's native offices.[8]

The war had pushed nations to their breaking point. After seeing the success of the EEC taking control of all the assets of Arasaka Europe, Japan nationalized all Arasaka's assets inside the country and nearby territories. The Japanese Government apologized to all nations of the UN, saying they could not do anything about Arasaka beyond their immediate sphere of influence.[9]

With all local Arasaka assets under the Japanese government control, and the US entering the conflict to stop Militech, the global war was effectively over in East Asia. National face was saved.[10] Once the conflict came to an official stop, the government claimed victory, finally realizing that they had the power all along to keep the Corporations in check. The Arasaka Corporation would only go so far, till it eventually would bow to the government.[citation needed]

2040s
Japan had been slowly recovering from the damage of the Arasaka Corporation's abortive coup. Despite this the Japanese mainland still allowed Arasaka to hold on to most of its assets due to its strong alliance with the official government.[11]

In 2045, Elflines Online, an MMO game, was released for the Segotari RUSH REVOLUTION Interactive Braindance headset.[12]

2077
In 2077, Tokyo faced a housing crisis, as the government proposed a solution of draining part of the Tokyo Bay to make room for more Megabuildings. The Arasaka Corporation also agreed to putting 24 billion new yen towards building new housing to accommodate the growing population. During this, a German cyberanthropologist reported that despite Japan being known for the technological leaps, the people could still be seen using analog film cameras, and pocket computers. Author Tsutomu Takahashi released his book called 75 Years of Cyberware.[13]

Bioengineers celebrated the first successful cloning of a cave lion. Scientists from Tokyo, Seoul, and Yakutsk used genetic material from the remains of an ancient female lion discovered in a bog near Kolyma river in Northern Siberia.[13]

Arasaka engineers successfully conducted ballistic missile tests on Yakushima. The new electromagnetic missile was to combat the growing terrorist threat as well as other rogue elements that threaten public safety. Rumors circulated of Arasaka developing new line of reflex boosters that would last twice as long as the current models on the market. The corporation was also looking for willing participates for the experiments.[13]

Famous braindance producer, Hideyoshi Oshima, had strived to create real emotionally touching human experiences within his BD studio in Tokyo. For inspiration Hideyoshi travelled to Night City staying at Konpeki Plaza where he met with BD talent.

A brand new game developing company known as Gentomo, started development on a smart holocall simulator that would allow users to design their friends from scratch. The company's hope is to help reduce the suicide rates in countries of Asia.[13]

After the death of Saburo Arasaka was reported and made public by the Arasaka Corporation, many of Japanese public payed respects and mourned the death of the man who helped in the rebuild of the country during the 1970s and 1980s.

The up-and-coming light heavyweight Kazuo Kano, a ronin from Osaka, remained undefeated after twenty professional fights, seventeen of which were won by technical knockout. Some accused Kano of doping, others say he had connections with the Yakuza. Wide scars had been visible near Kano's ribs for his last three fights. Local ripperdocs said that the scars definitely do not look like an appendix removal procedure. Many anticipated whether or not he became the next light heavyweight champion of the world.[14]

Haruyoshi Nishikata, the world's best brain surgeon, was ordered to perform a surgery on a Tyger Claws boss who had been injured. Haruyoshi, however, due to his morals and understanding of the gang, allowed the surgery to fail. After the Tyger Claws found out about his actions he quickly called his contact and fled to America to escape the judgement of the gang.

The popular idol group Us Cracks toured through the country first starting in Tokyo. Afterwards the idol group travelled through Paris, Sydney and later Night City, where they signed a contract to collaborated with Kerry Eurodyne. If things went well the Us Cracks and Kerry Eurodyne later came out with a new hit single called Off the Leash.[13]

Government
Main article: Government of Japan
I have experienced failure as a politician and for that very reason, I am ready to give everything for Japan.
– Japanese Prime Minister, Pacific Rim Sourcebook

The government of Japan is a constitutional monarchy in which the power of the Emperor is limited and is relegated primarily to ceremonial duties. As in many other states, the Government is divided into three branches: The Legislative branch, the Executive branch, and the Judicial branch.[2][3]

Foreign Relations
Japan has an established structure of foreign relations and much of it's influence can be seen all over the globe. Japan maintained strong trade relations with North, Central, and South America, the country has been a key factor in aiding much of the 3rd world including the fractured New United States. Brazil and NUSA remained the home of the largest Japanese communities in the world. In the 1990s, Japan was also offered a position in the European Economic Community due to their rising status as a leading superpower, however in 2015 after years of manipulation and mutual sabotage led to them being removed. Germany fought to limit the foreign influence in Europe as the European Community became more isolationist. While many European nations remained on good relations with Japan such as the Czech Republic or Portugal, Slovakia had the strongest influence from them. Slovakia remained a massive trade partner and was home to the largest Japanese community in Europe.[15] Australia has remained a military ally to the country often participating in military maritime drills. The US military also remained an ally.

In Asia, Japan had a strong trade relation with Taiwan, however the country still struggles with it's relations with other nations in the area. China and Korea fear the power and influence the SDF has on the pacific rim. Especially Korea still sees the Japanese in a negative light. 52% of Koreans think of Japan as "the enemy," and 53% think that the SDF is the dangerous, metal-clad reincarnation of the Imperial Armies. This is in spite of the fact that the Japanese government has donated 8.5 billion Eurodollars to help reconstruct United Korea since 2005.[2]

Imperial House
Main article: Imperial Household of Japan
The Japanese Emperor, or Tenno, for most of history has been a figurehead, and was once the closest thing to God. The Japanese calendar is also determined by the current Emperor, the era being named after them. The Emperors power now, is purely ceremonial and has no say in politics of the country. History was not kind to the Imperial household and even still the Imperial Family struggles as it tries to keep up with the time.[3]

Zaibatsus (財閥)
In 2020 journalist from the NUSA went to determine the actual status of the zaibatsus in Tokyo by interviewing around 10 million salarymen in the Sunrise City itself, home to many of the largest Megacorporations in the world. The majority denied the accusations, even corporate giants such as SegAtari and Kiroshi mentioned in interviews that the system was a thing of the past.[2]

A zaibatsu is a Japanese term referring to industrial and financial vertically integrated business conglomerates, whose influence and size allowed control over significant parts of the Japanese economy. In feudal Japan, during the Meiji Restoration social changes is what led to zaibatsus emerging unto the surface. When the power was taken away from the Shogun and samurai, and given to the Emperor and the merchants.[3] The traditional definition of zaibatsu actually depends on two factors:

Family Relationship/Clans
Historically, a zaibatsu is a family that holds control of multiple companies. The "family" doesn't necessarily mean blood relatives. In Japan, if a person showed a superiority in an ability, they could have been adopted into a family of power.

Keiretsu
A zaibatsu is a system where the suppliers are traditionally owned by the same group as the manufacturers. Generally, most of the zaibatsus owned the various banks in Japan. Each zaibatsu corporation would raise funds from the banks in the form of debts held. All companies from the same zaibatsu would also use the same banks.

An example of this can be seen in producing cars. First a traditional zaibatsu company would import the raw materials (iron). Then they'd sell the iron only to steel companies in the same zaibatsu, who would make steel plates. They would then sell the plates to a zaibatsu auto company who would make the cars, which would be sold through that same zaibatsu's dealership, or through an exporter that works for that zaibatsu. The capital for all this would be gained through the loans by the zaibatsu banks. This then makes an almost self-dependent corporate system, with each company being led by a member of the same family. This also minimizes financial risk, but management freedom is severely limited by the needs of those up the line.

However after WW2, the American Occupation Forces forced the disband of the zaibatsus. The family relationship was also abolished since each corporation had to be fully owned by different people. It is believed this is the reason most Japanese salarymen say there are no more zaibatsus, and that what are understood by others as "zaibatsus" are just another corporate group.

However, relationships that existed in zaibatsus have occassionally survived in the "keiretsu system, which establishes informal alliances between multiple companies in order to continue working side by side although in different legal terms. The family relationships have also survived in less obvious manners.[2]

Military
Main article: Japanese Self Defense Forces
Geography, Climate, & Environment
2019-12-21 (47)
Japan Map (as of 2020)

The Jakota Triangle - (Japan, Korea, Taiwan) is characterized by huge cities, enormous global commerce, high consumption of raw materials, and rapid development. Japan is also part of the Pacific Rim, with land facing the Pacific, relatively high levels of industrialization and urbanization indicating high levels of economic development, and huge imports/ exports which move mainly across the Pacific.

Japan can be seen as small units of mountainous terrain; some scholars suggest that this is one reason for the decentralized pattern of government developed in feudal times. Today, there are forty-seven prefectures, many still following historic mountain boundaries. Japan's regions are: Hokkaido, Tohoku, Chubu, Kanto, Chugoku, Kinki, Shikoku, Kyushu-Okinawa, and the Kuril Islands under a joint control with the Soviet Union. Japan also has control of several islands in the South pacific near Indonesia due in part to Arasaka. Japan's rivers are small, not navigable for any great length, fast moving and useful for generating some hydroelectric power. Rivers and plentiful rainfall make possible extensive agriculture and forest production. Wood is also imported, largely from Southeast Asia.[2]

Environment
Japan consists of several thousands of islands, of which Honshu, Hokkaido, Kyushu and Shikoku are the four largest. Japan's closest neighbors are Korea, Siberia (Soviet Union), and China. The Sea of Japan separates the Asian continent from the Japanese archipelago. Japan's area is comparable to that of Germany or California. Japan's northernmost islands are located on a similar geographical latitude as Milan or Portland, while her southernmost islands are on a similar latitude as the Bahamas. More than 50% of the country is mountainous and covered by forests. Because Japan is located in a region, where several continental plates meet, the country experiences frequent earthquakes. For the same reason, there are many volcanoes and natural hot springs in Japan. Japan's most famous volcano and highest mountain is Mt. Fuji.

Climate
Due to the large North-South extension of the country, the climate varies strongly in different regions. The climate in most of the major cities, including Tokyo, is temperate to subtropic and consists of four seasons. The winter is cold and rainy while the summer is hot and humid. There is a rainy season in early summer, and typhoons hit parts of the country every year during late summer. The climate of the northern island of Hokkaido and the Sea of Japan coast is colder, and snow falls in large amounts. Snowfall can be up to ten feet in on the northern part of Honshu. Major cities like Sendai and Tokyo experience snowfall for about 10 days out of the year, while in Osaka it's very rare. In Okinawa the mean temperature of January is a warm 17 degrees Celsius.[2]

Prefectures
Japan is divided into several types of administrative areas- To (Capital), Do (Region), Fu (Metropolis), and Ken (Prefeture). There are also four levels of municipalities -- Shi (City), Ku (Ward), Cho (or Machi, Town), Son (or Mura, Village). Municipalities, especially cities, are further divided into Chome (Neighborhoods). A typical urban address will read like this: "Apt. #808, Takayama Building, 4-Chome, Matsuyama-shi, Khima-ken."[2][3]

Regions	Prefectures	Info
Hokkaido	Hokkaido	Hokkaido features only one prefecture of the same name, and its major cities include Sapporo, Asahikawa and Hakodate, which you can easily reach with a Japan Line Pass. Home to the Famous Arasaka Training Camp.
Tohoku	Akita, Aomori, Fukushima, Iwate, Miyagi, and Yamagata	Tohoku, in the north of Honshu islands, is one of Japan's most scenic regions. Known for its mountains and great skiing spots, lakes, hot springs, castles and samurai residences. Its capital, Sendai, is known as the "city of trees" and is home to one of the most popular summer festivals in Japan. Arasaka R&D Facility is located here.
Kanto	Chiba, Gunma, Ibaraki, Kanagawa, Saitama, Tochigi, and Tokyo	Kanto is Japan's most populated region and home to the greater Tokyo area. It's known as the factory that keeps Japan running. Other cities are Yokohama, Hakone (and its five lakes), Saitama, Chiba and Kamakura, an ancient city full of historic treasures. Home to the the largest corps; Arasaka, Fujiwara, and SegAtari to name a few.
Chubu	
Aichi, Fukui, Gifu, Ishikawa, Nagano, Niigata, Shizuoka, Toyama, and Yamanashi

The Chubu region is located in central Honshu, Japan's largest island. It is very diverse, including the cities of Nagoya, Takayama and Kanazawa, the Japanese Alps and the mighty Mount Fuji. Also home to Kiroshi Optics.
Kansai	Hyōgo, Kyoto, Mie, Nara, Osaka, Shiga and Wakayama	The Kansai or Kinki region is the western region of the island of Honshu and includes the cities of Himeji, Kobe, Kyoto, Osaka, and Nara. It is the cultural and historical heart of Japan and the second-most populated after Kanto.
Chugoku	Hiroshima, Okayama, Shimane, Tottori and Yamaguchi	Also known as the Sanin-Sanyo region, is the westernmost region of Honshu island. This is where you can ride the Sunrise Express night trains and visit the great Izumo Shrine, Okayama (and its Korakuen Garden), Hiroshima and Miyajima.
Shikoku	Ehime, Kagawa, Kōchi, and Tokushima	Shikoku is Japan's smallest island and region and probably the most peaceful one. It is known for its abundant nature, beautiful rivers, and wonderful onsen, and it is the home of the 88 Temple Pilgrimage as well as Matsuyama and Takamatsu cities.
Kyushu	
Fukuoka, Kumamoto, Nagasaki, Ōita, Saga, Kagoshima, Miyazaki, Tsushima and Okinawa

The Kyushu region includes both Kyushu island and Okinawa islands. Kyushu offers a perfect mix of history, natural beauty, and modern cities like Fukuoka. Okinawa, the southernmost prefecture, its known for its magnificent beaches.
Demographics
Japan used to be a mono-racial country. Overtime there were many more gaijin (foreigners) who started entering, Koreans, and the second and third generation Japanese-SAs (South Americans) who fled the First and Second Central American Wars of the American continents and returned to the country of their ancestors. Few of the refugees actually spoke Japanese, and most were of a different culture entirety. The main religion, Shinto, is Shamanistic, and the country still has an Emperor.

300 years ago, a person spoke their mind freely could get their head cut off for impudence. By law freedom of speech does exist, however many do not speak the truth in many situations. The society of Japan uses a system of Tatamae and Honne on a daily basis. Tatamae is the mask the people put on for others, this mask is put on to suppress their internal emotions. Even if they have problems with their boss, politicians, or other socitical concerns Tatamae is the face of someone who does not act on emotion. Being overly opinionated is often seen as immature. Honne is the honest face, this is the face most of the people use around their friends and family, also co-workers as well at an Izakaya will often use their honne among each other.

Heroes in Japan were often anarchist or people who fought the system and died an honorable tragic death. Many people are often impressed by a tragic death, when it is fighting against the system. This is why so much of the popular entertainment revolves around Bosozoku and other "maniacs." Naturally, this doesn't represent the whole country, more of a generalization. The Greater Tokyo Area (Kanto) tends to have a more cold atmosphere with more people using their tatemae. Western Japanese (Kansai-jin), from the Osaka-Kyoto-Kobe sprawl, tend to be more free and down to earth with their honne.[2]

Population
As of 2077, the population of Japan is over 145,000,000 including approximately five million foreign residents and refugees. More than half of the non Japanese population is of Korean descent. During the 2010s an influx of Chinese and South American refugees came to the country and settled in cities such as Tokyo and Osaka. The increase in population led to a housing ongoing housing crisis. Japan has one of the largest populations, and is the most populated island in the world.

Religion
Main article: Religion
Shinto and Buddhism are Japan's two major religions. Shinto is as old as the Japanese culture, while Buddhism was imported from the mainland in the 6th century. Since then, the two religions have been co-existing relatively harmoniously and have even complemented each other to a certain degree. Most Japanese consider themselves Buddhist, Shintoist or both.

Religion does not play a big role in the everyday life of most Japanese people today. The average person typically follows the religious rituals at ceremonies like birth, weddings and funerals, may visit a shrine or temple on New Year and participates at local festivals (matsuri), most of which have a religious background. Other religions practiced are Christianity and Confucianism.[2]

Family Structure
Most families in Japan are nuclear families. That is to say that a married couple lives together with their children, perhaps with one grandparent. Japanese families can have as many children as they want, and choose to support to them as far into their late twenties.

Health
In Japan people can live well into their 150s, without experiencing illness their whole lives. Saburo Arasaka lived well into his 150s, while still reaming in control of his company. The health care system in Japan provides healthcare services, including screening examinations, prenatal care and infectious disease control, with the patient accepting responsibility for 30% of these costs while the government pays the remaining 70%. Without cybernetic enhancements or medical care people can live up to 120 years of age and disease is highly more likely to occur.[3]

Education
The basic school system in Japan is composed of elementary school (lasting six years), middle school (three years), high school (three years), and university (four years). Education is compulsory only for the nine years of elementary and middle school, but 98% of students go on to high school. Due to the fact that their educational system is so good, Japan has one of the world's best-educated populations. Foreigners are also well educated around Japan, with the most illiterate being in Tokyo.

The difference between Japan and America is huge when talking about lifestyle. The Japanese dance on the vicious edge known as the Exam War from pre-school. High education is the only way to advance. Kids who fail school entrance exams are often referred to as 'Ronin' and usually end up trying to study for something else. While most Americans or Europeans feel that school is uncool, in Japan that's known as gomi thinking. The Japanese do as they must: being polite and studious during school, while going wild afterwards.[2]

Society
Japan is a highly urbanized society, with 90% of the people living in urban city landscapes. There are many big cities filled with skyscrapers and neon lights. The royalty still continues, rich people, middle class, and the poor. The people utilize a lot of high tech that is developed domestically. Japan has an ancient culture with many traditions.[2] Etiquette, punctuality and harmony is important. Traditionally Japanese culture favors group thought and not individual ideals, however this concept is constantly tested. Despite the Japan often being known for very little crime, Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya see much crime due to the influx of foreigners/refugees and receives terrorist attacks due to the country's thriving economy. Japan becoming the biggest superpower in the world has also brought the citizens work harder to maintain their current status.[3]

Salarymen
These are corporates and other employees, white-collar worker who show overriding loyalty and commitment to the corporation where they work; people working for a Corp, or who are Self-Employed. Salarymen become either Mega-corp executives or own their own small corp or business. Employees are those who work for the corps, and are just making a living. R&D techs, Medias, Corporate Solos, and Corp musicians/Rockerboys/Idols are also considered Employees. Salarymen are known for working many hours, sometimes over eighty hours per week. Extreme pressure on salarymen can lead to death by overwork, or karōshi.

Style House Japan
In Japan, there's a very important word, kawaii, which means; cute, pretty, darling, coquettish, and sexy. For nature, Kawaii are often small, cute things you just want to hug and protect. Bunnies and kittens are kawaii. However, Geisha are also kawaii. An anime character can be kawaii. Mascots, names, clothes, and idols all strive to be kawaii. It's an important part of the Japanese way of life.

In the discos and clubs, girls compete with each other as to see who's prettiest. These body-con (body conscious) girls show up wearing tight next-to-nothings and lingerie that show a lot of skin and silky brushed chrome. If they could go nude, they probably would, except it's against the law, and the omawari will fine you. The old Sorayama 2-D are still a big influence over here. If you have no pockets and want to dance all night, the best place to keep your stuff is in your Waist Pouch. This is a purse (like a clutch purse) that you can attach to your stylish belt. You can use one pouch for many belts, but the truly stylish always match their outfits. Eji of Japan's more minimal outfits are all the rage, and his Kataginu Suits (jackets with the old Samurai wings) are very appealing to men.

In the Vicki business, a plethora of services exist for all bends of life, and new ones are invented every day. Hameru is a way of life, and sodomy is not a sin, nor is it illegal. Senseis of sekkusu-do are to be much admired. No technique or activity was reproached until the Meji era.

It's purity vs corruption, not sin vs saintliness. They started to import those ideals in the Meji era, when the Victorian gaijin came in the country. For a while, up to the 70s, Japan was pretty uptight too, but at the end 19th century, people loosened up again.

Almost all girls are into kawaii things, and some go kind of overboard. It's all braids and stuffed animals, short skirts on their sailor suits, kittens and bunny ears, big eyes, and really high, squeaky, voices. Elf exotics, bunnies, and Kittens fall in here. They don't like free love, because it's so sweaty and icky.[3]

Androgyny
As you know, most courageous way to live is the way of Bushi-do; the way of a warrior and the Samurai's life. Now, to be courageous is not the same as to be machismo. Japanese are not the largest people in the world, so they know that a big body is not skill, and skill is the way to power. "The soft overcomes the hard" are the words of Kano Jigoro, the creator of Judo: "Dexterity, quickness, and skill are important, if you simply must fight. Even in Sumo, where big, beefy men rule, we are always happy to see a smaller man win."

Sometimes, people who are charming and courageous pop up. From the very beginnings, effeminate heroes have been around. In Kabuki, the most charming female roles are best played by men, and in the Osaka Takarazuka Opera, women play all the roles. Yin-yang theory says that by combing opposites, you become stronger, so maybe androgyny is the perfect style for Nippon. Especially in the music world, you'll see many famous Japanese rockers with feminine bio-sculpts, big hair, and make-up, wearing lace and leather. They are so kawaii-and strong. The Anime Braindances and VRs are also perfect examples.

Aragoto and Kata
Kabuki is good to understand the Japanese style. Like Martial Arts, Kabuki has Kata: the still pose and expression that shows your emotion (usually crazed) before explosive action. The verb of this is Kabu-ku, to look crazy, or to borrow and vogue another personality vividly. Standing-up hair is deep anger, face-painting is fighting spirit, grief, or some other emotion, depending on the design. Rockers, as well as Bosozoku, Teamers, and other "bad youth" borrow from this. They want to threaten the status quo, corps lifestyle, so they look dramatic.

They use make-up and face painting (Kuma-dori) to look tough, like the Kabuki aragoto (fierce young-man), and modify their school uniforms. Collars become very high and pants are very baggy, girls lengthen their skirts to the ground, and pockets, studs, and extra buttons are put on the uniform so it looks like some kind of armor. Of course, they tag their territory with kanji graffiti. Because being busted is very easy, many wear shades, masks, and bright make-up to hide their identity.

Yakuza follow this too, with their brightly-colored suits, shades, dyed punch perms and tattoos, not to mention affecting rough, garrulous speech. This is most true for low-ranked chimpira. After a couple of promotions, they can relax, and look like all other corps.[3]

Food
Most food in Japan is real, except for in the poor areas of the country. A lot of international food is available in Tokyo, but the most popular national dishes are noodles, sukiyaki, and tempura. For more adventurous eaters there is sushi and sashimi, both of which feature raw fish. Prices of various meals are given in the price lists. Travelers often eat from bento boxes, packed lunches that are full of things to eat and available for sale on platforms and trains. Department stores often have whole floors of restaurants and cafes and the numerous Japan Rail railway stations around the Yamanote Line are usually ringed by streets of restaurants of all kinds. Major office buildings usually contain basement restaurants catering to salarimen, and in Tokyo there are plenty of restaurants on the top floors of the skyscrapers, with cool views of the city. Ocha, green tea, is often served free at Japanese style restaurants.

Entertainment
In the country there are establishments invariably called bars, cabarets, nightclubs, discos, beer halls, VRcades, and so on. Some of them are expensive and only cater to local businessmen with an expense account. Others are patronized by the average corporate office worker who after a long day in the office needs a couple of drinks, snacks and laughs. Within this category there are hotels' cocktail lounges and bars, beer halls and summertime beer gardens on the rooftops of office and department store buildings. Night falls at around 7 pm in summer, 5 pm in winter. The neon lights begin flashing their messages long before it gets dark, beckoning the thousands of corporate office workers to the city's nightlife.[3]

Aka-chochin: Also red lantern places; generally inexpensive and serve beer, sake and whiskey as well as a wide range of tasty snacks like yakitori or barbecued chicken and grilled fish. Other types of pub are Yakitori-ya specializing in yakitori snacks and robatayaki, where ingredients are grilled at your table as you eat and drink.
Western Style Pubs: More standing room than Japanese versions. Serve a wider variety of drinks together with Western food.
Beer Halls/Gardens: Safe, reasonably priced eating and drinking houses. In summer there are a number of beer gardens which spring up in unlikely places (such as office roofs).
Wine Houses: Very popular and a number of good ones are found in Roppongi and Ginza offering wines and meals at reasonable prices.
Bars, Cabarets & Nightclubs: In Tokyo these places tend to be expensive, as in other big cities. These places frequently operate with hostesses and charge handsomely for it. Most of these places are only for expense account corporation entertainment.
Video Games, Arcades, & Pachinko: State of the art video game arcades are found in Tokyo using 3D VR technology. A traditional game is pachinko, Japanese pinball where players sit at their upright machines in row after row feeding in steel balls in the hope of winning small gifts.[3]
Economy
Misc Image ArasakaTower
The Arasaka HQ in Tokyo

The economy of Japan is a highly developed free-market economy. Japan has a low unemployment rate of around four percent. Being the largest economic power, Japan controls much of the world and has a huge influence in various countries. Newly developed cities like that of Night City have a huge influence of Japanese culture and are often built by the Japanese corporations. Japan's economy has a huge focus on Industry, Services, Science and technology, Agriculture and fishery, as well as Tourism. While many countries (Primarily in Europe) fear how far Japan's reach has stretch, many still welcome their industry and services offered from the many corporations and government.[2]

New Yen
At the creation of the eurodollar in 1992, its value was based on an average of the Japanese yen and other currencies, including the US, French, German, and British ones.[5][6] In 2015, after Japan was removed from the EEC, it established the new yen as its currency. The initial exchange rate was of 200 new yen for each eurodollar.[2]

Vehicle Manufactures
Japan has been known for it's Vehicle and Car manufactures since the early 1980s. Japan became the biggest motor vehicle producing country in the world with 11,042,884 motor vehicles compared to the USA's 8,009,841. In 2040 the Japan's manufacturing companies have taken the world by storm and produced cars, motorcycles, AVs, and so on at mass. Here's a list of just the most popular vehicle manufactures.

Top Car Companies:
Name	HQ	Info
Honda[16]	Tokyo	Known as a manufacturer of automobiles, motorcycles, and power equipment.
Kawasaki[16]	Tokyo	Known as a manufacturer of motorcycles.
Kundalini[16]	Tokyo	Known as a manufacturer of automobiles and motorcycles.
Makigai[16]	Tokyo	Known as a manufacturer of cheap cars, and is very common brand found in the US.
Mazda[16]	Hiroshima	Known as a manufacturer of automobiles.
Mitsubishi-Sugo[16]	Nagano	Known as a manufacturer of military grade vehicles of protection.
Mitsuzuki[16]	Nagoya	Known as a manufacturer of automobiles.
Mizutani[17]	Tokyo	Known as a manufacturer of sports cars.
Nissan[16]	Yokohama	Known as a manufacturer of automobiles.
Toyota[16]	Toyota	Known as a manufacturer of automobiles.
Yaiba[17]	Osaka	Known as a manufacturer of motorcycles.
Corporations/Zaibatsus
The Japanese zaibatsus, or just Corporations, have heavy influence and control over Japan. As well as ties to the Government itself to gain full control over the country, however this has proven to be very difficult with the the founding of the FACS political party which started an anti-corporate (aka Arasaka) government was formed from this to prevent further interference from the power hungry corporates.[2]

That being said, the Japanese government still struggles with corporate bought politicians and ministries control by certain corporations trying to spread their influence. Still with this negative view on the zaibatsus, the market thrives and many Japanese Corporations are able to practice their methods throughout the world. While their are many, this list below shows just a select few of the large and small Corporations that can that are Headquartered in Japan, from Tokyo and Osaka to Nagoya and Fukuoka.[3]

Name	Type	Info
Arasaka	Corporate Security, Banking, Manufacturing	The Arasaka Corporation is a world-wide megacorporation dealing in corporate security, banking, and manufacturing. They wield more financial power than any other single corporation and use subversive tactics such as blackmail, extortion, and bribery to influence the world around them.[3] Arasaka specializes in protective services and the distribution of their Japanese-made products throughout North America. Arasaka is the largest exporter of Japanese made products.[2]
Kendachi	Manufacturer	Kendachi has very close ties with Kenjiri, and they have a joint design firm in orbit, to be closer to the manufacturing process. Kendachi aimed to dominate the Asian market. Hong Kong and Shanghai, where cheap Kendachi imitations were made, were the company's prime targets. Kendachi manufacturers in mass Japanese traditional melee defense weapons mixing modern technology with classic samurai weapons.[4][2][3]
Kiroshi Opticals	Cyberware Manufacturer	Matsushima-Kiroshi, or Kiroshi Opticals, is a cybernetics company that specializes in optics. Founded by Toyatomi Fujimura in Nagano Japan.[4] Their cybernetics have been often praised by medical personal from around the world. Kiroshi has a monopoly on optics markets worldwide, with majority of optics being manufactured by them.[2][3]
Toyota	Vehicle Manufacturer	The Toyota Corporation is one of the largest vehicle manufacturers in the world. During the the collapse Toyota bought out many bankrupting companies and restructured them them under new subsidiaries under the company brand.
Fujiwara	Banking	Fujiwara is one of the bigwigs in the financial world and one of the largest banks in the world.[3] The bank controls other corporations through the use of loaned cash. It can exert pressure on the company's board of directors to follow policies beneficial to the main bank, or can even takeover through threat of foreclosure. Fujiwara has set up a keiretsu system, and controls corporations that aren't under the Fujiwara name via cash control. They use this power to build up the Fujiwara group. Fujiwara banks can be found in almost every city with a significant population worldwide.[2]
SegAtari	Games Developer & Publisher, Robotics Research & Manufacturing, Weapons Manufacturing	SegAtari, or Segotari, has three branches to it's corporate structure. SegAtari is mainly known as a games developer and publisher, working on consoles, VR devices, video games that are found worldwide. Their VRcades are found in most cities. SegAtari also manufacturers their popular humanoid robots displayed in boutiques and amusement parks. Finally, their weapons development and manufacturing division can be found in SegAtari's own Virtual Reality Interface (VRI) utilized by ACPA's.[2]
Akari Heavy Industries	Electronics & Computer Manufacturer	Akari Heavy Industries is a Japanese corporation focusing on manufacturing goods. It's also a multinational conglomerate that acquires other companies from around the world to spread it's influence and receive more revenue from different parts of the world. It's more famous actions comes from them attempting to acquire the Liverpool Shipping Inc. for itself. Despite it's numerous company assets, Akari Heavy Industries will also manufacture home goods.
Far Asian Co-prosperity Sphere	Multinational Corporation, Public Company, Political Party, Corp Group	Far Asian Co-prosperity Sphere, or FACS, is a group of various Japanese corporations big and small that formed under a banner to combat the Arasaka Corporation's control over the Japanese government. The group was successful in both preventing Arasaka and in becoming a large corporate exporter around the world. The corporations are still independent, however do keeping funding the organization to further their goals.
Mitsubishi/Koridansu	Orbital Design & Manufacturing	Mitsubishi/Koridansu maintain the intellectual property rights to the basic work-shack module expanded upon by virtually all Japanese corporations developing and manufacturing orbital work-shacks and auto-factories. Their the largest manufactures in the solar system and often get contracts to design original products. The products are famous for being reliable.[18]
Eji of Japan	Clothing Manufacturer	Eji of Japan is a large clothes manufacturer, distributor, and chain store that can be found in many cities. The corporation is well known for their casual trendy Japanese clothing.[19]
Takanaka	Clothing Manufacturer	Takanaka is popular clothing brand that tailors more to corporates. The corporation has chain retail stores across the globe showcasing it's line up of elegant business wear that also lends itself to proper defense.
Martial Arts
Main article: Japanese martial arts
Crime & Gangs
Main article: Gangs in Japan
Yakuza
Main article: Yakuza
Law Enforcement & Crime
Main article: Japanese National Police Agency
Infrastructure
Transportation
Japan Rail lines 
Japan Rail Lines

Japan has an efficient public transportation network, especially within metropolitan areas and between the large cities. Japanese public transportation is characterized by its punctuality, its superb service, and the large crowds of people using it.

Water Supply and Sanitation
Access to an improved water source is universal in Japan. 97% of the population receives piped water supply from public utilities and 3% receive water from their own wells or unregulated small systems, mainly in rural areas. Access to improved sanitation is also universal, either through sewers or on-site sanitation.

Energy
Energy in Japan refers to energy and electricity production, consumption, import and export in Japan. The country's primary energy consumption was 477.6 Mtoe in 2040, a decrease of 5% over the previous year. Following the Fukushima disaster, the general public has opposed the use of nuclear energy. The Japanese government in 2035 planned to reopen the nuclear power plants in again with more safe guards to ensure the safety of the country.

Major Cities
Tokyo - 57 million
Tokyo (東京), officially Tokyo Metropolis (東京都), is the modern day Babylon.[20] It has served as the Japanese capital since 1869, it houses the Imperial Family and the Japanese government. Tokyo forms part of the Kanto region on the southeastern side of Japan's main island, Honshu, and includes the Izu Islands and Ogasawara Islands. It has remained the cultural center of the country and has had an influx of foreigners raising it's population to 57 million people, leading to a housing crisis. It's also home to the massive Japanese zaibatsus who hold much control over the nation. Tokyo leads the charge of corporate research and development, as well as being a leading manufacturing giant.

Osaka - 31 million
Osaka (大阪) is a designated city in the Kansai region of Japan. It is the capital city of Osaka Prefecture and the largest part of the Keihanshin Metropolitan Area, the second largest metropolitan area in Japan and among the largest in the world with more than 31 million inhabitants. Osaka was traditionally considered Japan's economic hub. The city known for their Rocker and Media talent, mainly comedians. People from Osaka are less formal and more down to earth than the rest of Japan. It's also the corporate hub in the Kansai region and the has the largest population of Yakuza in the country.

Kyoto - 3.67 million
Kyoto (京都), is the capital city of Kyoto Prefecture in Japan. Located in the Kansai region on the island of Honshu, Kyoto forms a part of the Keihanshin metropolitan area along with Osaka and Kobe. Kyoto is the center for Japanese tradition in the country. Little advancement has kept Kyoto a beautiful traditionally styled city with most buildings being made of wood. There are very little foreigners that come to Kyoto due to the lack of cybernetic enhancements and cyberware. It also has the largest percentage of people without cybernetic enhancements coming at 47%.[2][3]

Nagoya - 4.19 million
Nagoya (名古屋) is the largest city in the Chubu region of Japan. It is Japan's fourth-largest incorporated city and the third-most-populous urban area. It is located on the Pacific coast on central Honshu. It is the capital of Aichi Prefecture and is one of Japan's major ports along with those of Tokyo, Osaka, Kobe, Yokohama, Chiba, and Kitakyushu. It is also the center of Japan's third-largest metropolitan region, known as the Chūkyō metropolitan area. Nagoya is a manufacturing and transportation giant, with the largest manufacturing of trains and cars. The city is also the country's largest port to the west. It also houses many factories used for cyberware manufacturing, defensive manufactures, and vehicle manufactures.[3]

Sapporo - 4 million
Sapporo (札幌市) is the fifth largest city of Japan by population, and the largest city on the northern Japanese island of Hokkaido. It is the capital city of Hokkaido Prefecture and Ishikari Subprefecture. It is an ordinance-designated city. Located in the southwestern part of Hokkaido, Sapporo lies within the alluvial fan of the Toyohira River, a tributary stream of the Ishikari River. Sapporo is also home to the third tallest building in Japan. A base is located north of the city to ensure protection in case of a Soviet invasion.[3]

Fukuoka
Fukuoka (福岡市) is the sixth-largest city in Japan and the capital city of Fukuoka Prefecture. It is located in the western side of Japan's third largest island Kyushu. Fukuoka is the most populated of Kyushu and is the financial center of the region. It's known for ancient temples, beaches and modern shopping malls, including Canal City. Maizuru Park contains ruins of 17th-century Fukuoka Castle.

Kobe - 3.4 million
Kobe (神戸市) is the seveth-largest city in Japan and the capital city of Hyōgo Prefecture. It is located on the southern side of the main island of Honshū, on the north shore of Osaka Bay and west of Osaka. With a population around 3.4 million, the city is part of the Keihanshin metropolitan area along with Osaka and Kyoto. Kobe has many foreigners and is known as the industrial city in the region. It's Chinatown is well known for it's black market and Triad dealings. The Ikuta Shrine, dating to the 3rd century, is among Japan's oldest Shinto shrines. It also has one of the large Chinatown with black market goods.[2]

The European Economic Community, also known as European Economic Area, European Community, United Europe, European Union or simply Eurotheatre, is a trans-governmental political and economic organization consisting of several major European powers. Though "European" in name, the EEC also welcomed the possible membership of any countries beyond the European continent; especially those were considered to have global influence. However, the only such superpower that ultimately accepted this offer was Japan, as the United States was still trapped in its own deeply paranoid sense of isolationism at the time, and thus declined the offer.[1][2]

Contents
1	Overview
2	Government
2.1	The European Council
2.2	Foreign Relations
3	History
3.1	1990 - 2020
3.2	2045
3.3	2077
4	EEC Members
4.1	Active Members
4.2	Former Members
5	Associate Members
5.1	Scandinavia
5.2	New Central Europe
5.3	Miscellaneous
6	Notes
7	Gallery
8	References
Overview
The European Economic Community, or EEC, is a political and economic group whose membership encompasses all of Western Europe, with the the major players being France, Benelux, and Germany. As is seemingly-universal in the world, money plays a substantial role in how the organization conducts its operations. Specifically, the overall wealth of a country determines the level of influence its representatives have in the EEC's Euro Council. The richer the country's economy, the greater the influence. At the center of its operations is the EuroBank, one of the largest and most powerful banks in the world, which much of the EEC's economy depends on, as well as the economies of other places around the world. The EEC is also responsible for the Euro Space Agency (or ESA), the world's largest and most advanced space-faring organization.[3][4]

Government
Each European country has its own elections, with the lone exception of the United Kingdom (which remained under martial law). These elections are held for control over local governments, each of whom in turn send representatives to the EEC. The politicians selected during these elections ultimately handle issues local to their specific country, mainly how to spend their chunk of the EEC tax money. They are held responsible for the smooth running of local, day-to-day operations and the control of public services, but this does not always prove easy. Oftentimes, many of these services are outsourced, and provided by contracted companies. Finally, the local politicians are responsible for forwarding requests to the EEC for grants and funding.[4]

The national governments of a European country are responsible for the taxation and policies that are not covered by the EEC's directives. Many National Governments also work hard to push their projects to the EC, in an attempt to attract major developments and contracts in their country.

Additionally, even though it is not geographically part of Europe, Japan was known to take part in this system of elections for more than twenty years, until it was ultimately kicked out of the EEC.

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

The European Council
Headquartered in the Benelux region of Brussels, the European Economic Community guarantees that all member states have a representative count directly proportional to their economic wealth; each nation is granted one council member for every hundred million eurodollars in wealth. Unsurprisingly, this causes a significant power disparity in the organization, as it means poorer states who cannot provide the funds for more councilors are left with far less influence over the organization than countries like France, Germany, or Benelux who hold the most wealth the in the EEC, and therefore exert the most influence over the European Council.[4] Elections for councilors are held every four years in November.

From 2018 to 2022, the Council consisted of 536 members who had the ultimate decision-making power in Europe. Within the council there are also grades of power. The Speaker is effectively in charge of the Euro Council, with last word on all major debates and issues, while also deciding who will speak and when they will speak. The Assistant Speaker has the power of the Speaker in the former's absence. Both the Speaker and the Assistant Speaker are selected by a majority vote from the other members of the Council. The leaders of the various unofficial voting groups exercise considerable power. Each group has senior members, as well as what are known as Sprinters who are usually younger members.

Foreign Relations
The EEC has fairly solid relationship with most of the world. Relations with the newly-reformed USSR have improved greatly since the Cold War Era, though much of that relationship is primarily the EEC taking advantage of Eastern European countries for their cheap labor and land. The EEC's relations with North and South America are considerably more sensitive, as Canada is the only country in the region with whom they are on good terms. Mexico is seen as a country prone to constant and violent political swings, and is much less stable than Canada. The NUSA is on extremely tense terms with the EEC, ever since the Gang of Four waged a propaganda campaign against Europe during the conflicts of the 1990s, in which they used jealousy of the better conditions in Europe to give US citizens someone other than their own government to blame for their misery. When it comes to Asia, the EEC has a normal competitive relationship with the various countries, although Japan remains a big rival of the EEC and has been known to fight against some of its member countries, such as with Germany during the Yen War of 2015. While the EEC attempted to limit the spread of international megacorporations in Europe, Arasaka Europe, a subsidiary of Arasaka, was nevertheless able to thrive in the European market, as were several other Japanese and Korean corporations.[4]

History
1990 - 2020
In 1992, the European Economic Community was established with a common currency called the Eurodollar, whose stability lead to it becoming the official currency in several non-European nations. Zones of Control and protective tariffs were established by the EEC as a means of regulating and administrating the activities of member nations. The regulated activities of the member nations included those of France, Germany, Britain, Japan, and Italy.[5] The US, however, was refused entry because of isolationist and protectionist policies of the ruling Gang of Four making it the only superpower at the time to not join.[1][2]

The core nations of the ECC decided against the resistance of the other European nations, to bring the ECC into existence. A period of economic turbulence followed in Europe, especially in France and Great Britain. This resulted in labor uprisings and general rioting.

Not till long, the EEC exposed the manipulation and uses of sabotage the US was attempting in Europe to undermine their power. This led to the crash of '94 and the collapse of the United States.

In years to follow, Japan, as a growing superpower, saw corporate greed turn its government corrupt as internal powers fought against each other for control. Ten years manipulation and mutual sabotage led to Japan being removed from the EEC in 2015. The New Yen currency was established to counter the Eurodollar (exchange rate is 200 Yen for 1 E-buck). The Yen War began in Europe, with Germany aiming to limit international corporations in Europe.[5]

In 2016, the EEC council approved on the construction of a tunnel between Europe and Northern Africa. The chosen route was the Strait of Gibraltar, giving the ECC full control over the area. Construction started in 2017 and was finished in 2020.[4]

2045
The Eurotheatre had been hurt by the Fourth Corporate War and the subsequent loss of its ESA and Orbital colonies to the Highriders. The World Stock Exchange and the Common Market managed to maintain a stable economy in which most of the European nations participated, with the exceptions of Italy, Spain and Greece, which all ended up suffering violent, chronic political upheavals. The international Corporations still had a great deal of power, however with the War many of the European nations kept the Euro business barons under control.

Great Britain, however, suffered major economic trouble massive amounts of immigration and an antiquated technological base, its streets were almost as explosively dangerous as that of the United States. The time of rebuilding hit Europe hard, as individual nations struggled to repair the damaged financial and industrial hubs affected by the War.

2077
By 2077, the Netherlands and Belgium fell victim to widespread coastal flooding caused by rising sea levels. Refugees from the two countries tried to seek shelter in Scandinavia by boat, but were refused entry. The Swedish Navy sank some refugee boats to pressure the rest to turn back.

That same year, Switzerland announced it had automated 90% of its military with the exception of its officer corps. The government planned to phase out the officer corps and reach 100% automation by 2080, fulfilling the country's dream of achieving true neutrality, as an automated military could be programmed to only defend the Swiss border and never act with aggression toward neighboring countries.[6]

EEC Members
Active Members
Country	Admission Date	Currency
Austria[4]	1992 (founder)	Eurodollar
Benelux (Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg)[4]	1992 (founder)	Eurodollar
Denmark[4]	1992 (founder)	Eurodollar
France[4]	1992 (founder)	Eurodollar
Germany[4]	1992 (founder)	Eurodollar
Greece (controls Macedonia)[4]	1993	Eurodollar
Ireland[4]	1993	Eurodollar
Italy[4]	1996	Eurodollar
Portugal[4]	1996	Eurodollar
Spain[4]	1993	Eurodollar
Former Members
Country	Admission Date	Currency
Japan[4][5]	1992 - 2015	New Yen
Turkey[4]	1990s - 1997	Unknown
United Kingdom[4][7]	1993 - Unknown	Eurodollar
Associate Members
Scandinavia
Country	Admission Date	Currency
Finland[4]	2000s	Eurodollar
Iceland[4]	2000s	Eurodollar
Norway[4]	2000s	Eurodollar
Sweden[4]	2000s	Eurodollar
New Central Europe
Country	Admission Date	Currency
Bulgaria[4]	Unknown	Unknown
Czech Republic[4]	Unknown	Eurodollar
Hungary[4]	Unknown	Eurodollar
Poland[4]	Unknown	Eurodollar
Romania[4]	Unknown	Unknown
Slovakia[4]	Unknown	Eurodollar
Miscellaneous
Country	Admission Date	Currency
Baltic League (Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania)	Unknown	Unknown
Rhodes[4]	Unknown	Eurodollar
Slovenia[4]	Unknown	Eurodollar
Soviet Union (Belarus, Moldova, Russia, Ukraine)	Unknown	Unknown
Switzerland	Unknown	Unknown
Yugoslavia (Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro, Serbia)[4]	Unknown	Unknown
Notes
All of the European nations utilize the Eurodollar, which was the gold standard. Other countries that use the Eurodollar, but aren't apart of the EEC include the NUSA and Canada. Japan also used Eurodallors from 1992 to 2015.

The Union of Sovereign Soviet Republics (USSR) (Russian: Союз Суверенных Советских Республик, СССР (Soyuz Suverennykh Sovetskikh Respublik, SSSR); also known as Neo-Sov or Neo-Soviets) is an energy and military superpower in the 21st century, as well as an ally of the European Economic Community. 15 constituent or union republics; Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Kazakhstan, Kirghizia (see Kyrgyzstan), Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Moldovia.


Contents
1	History
1.1	End of Communism (1990s)
1.2	Rise of SovOil (2000s)
1.3	2010s
1.4	Fourth Corporate War (2021-2023)
1.5	2030s-2040s
1.6	2077
2	Notable Countries
2.1	Russia
2.2	Ukraine
2.3	Belarus
2.4	Moldova
2.5	Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan
3	Geography
4	Current Situation
5	Major Cities
5.1	Moscow (Russian) - 12 Million
5.2	St. Petersburg/Leningrad (Russian) - 5 Million
5.3	Kyiv (Ukrainian) - 3 Million
5.4	Tashkent (Uzbek) - 2.8 Million
5.5	Baku (Azerbaijan) - 2 Million
6	Timeline
6.1	1910
6.2	1920
6.3	1930
6.4	1940
6.5	1950
6.6	1960
6.7	1970
6.8	1980
6.9	1990
6.10	2000
6.11	2010
6.12	2020
7	Gallery
8	References
History
End of Communism (1990s)
In the last decade of the old Soviet Union, the reformist Premier Gorbachev let Eastern Europe go in order to weaken the conservative military which was resisting his reforms. He then transformed the Soviet Union into the Soviet Federation, in which all of its members were granted the status of sovereign countries.

His successor, Andrei Gorborev, continued with the reforms but had to confront the growing problem of secessionist movements within the sovereign republics. He then created the new Union of Sovereign Soviet Republics, a free trade zone that united the sovereign republics which was similar to the European Community except that it also had its own army and foreign policy.

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

Rise of SovOil (2000s)
KGB remnants and Communist hard-liners attempted a coup which was quickly crushed due to the rebels having overstretched themselves, but it was done at great cost in both men and material. SovOil requested the authorization to establish its own security force, arguing that the Soviet Army did not have the resources to defend all of its facilities.

The state gave SovOil the authorization requested. This backfired spectacularly on Moscow, as it led to the Soviet Corporate Rebellion of 2002, in which SovOil declared itself an independent entity. The state took military action to prevent this but its forces were outmatched by the better equipped and motivated SovOil troops. The state was forced to admit defeat and accept the independence of SovOil.

SovOil became the most powerful faction within the Neo-Soviet Union. New secessionist movements then threatened to break up the various sovereign republics but via covert action and diplomacy, SovOil prevented this from happening. SovOil had a vested interest in keeping the USSR intact and stable, and therefore uses its political power, troops, and resources to make it so.

In 2006, SovOil begun to produce CHOOH2 under license from Biotechnica, which it marketed throughout Europe. The last-minute cancellation of a deal with Petrochem, where SovOil would have received updated drilling, pumping, and CHOOH2 technology in exchange for granting partial drilling rights in untapped Siberian oilfields. led to the permanent rift between the megacorporations.

The animosity became hostility, which erupted into violence and escalated into the Second Corporate War, a conflict into which numerous smaller corporations were dragged.[1]

2010s
The war between SovOil and Petrochem ended in mid-2010. In the years that followed, the political importance of SovOil leadership for the USSR is proven by the rolet that its Chairperson, Arkady Cherminino, had in resolving a conflict between Latvia and Lithuania during 2016. The megacorporation showed that it had become the major unifying force in the Union. It had greater resources than any single Republic and, even, the Central Committee.

By the end of the decade, SovOil became the seventh-largest corporation in the world, in terms of value, and continued to sail on the way up, becoming one of the major powers in the world. By leveraging its political power in the Union, where it could draw on the resources of the Republics and the Central Committee as tools when necessary, the megacorporation also maintained Neo-Soviet influence relevant throughout the world.[1]

Fourth Corporate War (2021-2023)
Within the USSR, mostly Russia, the nation had little in the way of Arasaka and Militech assets within their borders. The Russian governments had never been on good terms with USA or Japanese militaries. Russia was an acting neutral country, selling weapons, ammo, and equipment to anyone. The Neo-Soviet Rocket Corps was doing much the same, selling cheap rocket lifers for small satellites at rates that undercut the ESA's African Earth-to-orbit railgun cargo lifters, as corporations scrambled to plant more satellites in LEO.

2030s-2040s
Despite the massive reforms of the 1990s and growth of SovOil during the 2020s, Neo-Soviet Republics were still weakened by their antiquated technology. In 2045, the USSR couldn't fully feed its hungry population. A new generation of highly aggressive oligarchs rose as the failure of the economic and social reforms became evident, Unlike the Novosovetskaya partiya (NSP) predecessors who were content to simply siphon off the remaining assets of the State, the Neo-Soviet oligarchs were more akin to the megacorporations of the roaring 2020s: hungry for power, and willing to do anything to accomplish it.

Old powers such as SovOil were preparing for the next step in their evolution, aware that oil would stop being a prime source of revenue. The megacorporation diversified into more services and goods, moving into new areas like general agriculture, CHOOH2 power systems, aircrafts, computers, and synthetics. New players also emerged, such as Zhirafa Technical Manufacturing, which brought the GRAF3 construction drone to the market in 2039. For the first time in decades, Neo-Soviet technology is considerable reliable and inexpensive enough to be purchased in bulk by local governments, and with trust by small communities, worldwide. Within barely a handful of years, many governments and Corporations across the world had come to rely on the Neocorporation's line of aerial and terrestrial combat drones for use by their security and law enforcement.[2]

2077
In 2077, the USSR was a nation of irregular contrasts. Many citizens were guaranteed free public health care and access to the latest medical technology, complete with modern aerodynes,[3] and new cities were being built to house and employ the USSR's increasingly sedentary nomad population. However, basic resources remained scarce and pollution was a significant problem. The government created an AI named Geroi with the sole purpose of calculating solutions to these issues.[4]

Bioengineers celebrated the first successful cloning of a cave lion. Scientists from Yakutsk, Tokyo, and Seoul used genetic material from the remains of an ancient female lion discovered in a bog near Kolyma river in Northern Siberia.[4]

The Soviet Union and China during this time, competed to secure a major arms deal with Arasaka that would put the losing country at a severe military disadvantage. The Secretary General of the Soviet Union hired Mikhail Akulov to personally spearhead negotiations with Arasaka on his behalf. The fixer brought Shelma to monitor Chinese activity on the local Net, conceal his purpose in Night City, and check the status of China's talks with Arasaka.[4]

Notable Countries
Russia
Moscow 2020
Moscow (2020)

To Europeans, Russia has always been the Great Bear to the East. Most of the time it slept and when it woke, nations would fall. During the course of history gigantic armies would emerge irregularly from the depths of the Taiga, shoving away anything in their wake. From the Mongols to the Red Army, Russian influence was mainly felt in the form of major invasions every other century.

Within Russia things largely stayed the same throughout the centuries. Since after the defeat of the Golden Horde, Russians would live in a simple system. The Tsar ruled a collection of local lords who in turn exploited their subjects. The farmers and other lower classes didn't fare well under this system. They had no education, were bound to their lords and had no real rights in the government. The only comfort they found was in the Orthodox Church, even more so than the Roman Catholic Church promising a better life beyond the earthly horror. The Russian people took a long time before a revolution was started to overthrow the monarchy.

Meanwhile the lords and ladies wasted their people's money in the casinos of Germany and other countries. They were known and feared for their bad behavior in any major cultural center. They brought in lots of rubles, which were worth something back then. This way of life also explains Russia's late introduction into the industrial age. Building an industrial base when nine tenths of the populace can't write their own names was nearly impossible. Russia's handicap in technological developments stems from this time and continues to this day.

The communists decided to change all that during the October Revolution of 1917, which was fought between the tsarist army and two rivaling revolutionary forces. The Menshewiks propagated a more western approach and, though they were superior in numbers, were subsequently put down by the Bolshewiks. The latter were lead by one Lenin, who took his name from a tsarist work concentration camp near the Lena river.

Lenin's rule was as iron-fisted and paranoid as could be. Some of his many accomplishments were the socializing of all business, the murdering of all tsarists he could get hold of, as well as many critics of his regime. To better control the various minorities within his realm, he instituted a series of resettling programs. His plan was to move Russians into the minorities' territories to split up the homogeneous population. Other minorities didn't fare as well. Hundreds of thousands of royalists, farmers and intellectuals died in his concentration camps.

His methods were used to lesser (or greater) extent by all of his successors up to Gorbachev. All of the old men had gone paranoid by the time they reached their positions. The years of political infighting, backstabbing and intrigues took its toll on them. Not that this differs much from western leaders. When Gorbachev assumed power, the economic break- down of the Soviet Union was already more than apparent He knew that things would have to be changed if the USSR was to survive. One of his bolder steps was to reinstitute private ownership. Thus he set the base for economic growth. He also saw the massive resources spent in the military. To stop this unstable giant, he decreased influence on the central European states and the Soviet republics. This came to a head in the great changes of 1989, when the former East Bloc suddenly became 'democratic' states. Gorbachev's coup de grace was the transformation of the former Soviet Union into the Soviet Federation, granting its members the status of sovereign countries. As to be expected, he received a lot of flak from colleagues, but he had the support of the people who were hoping for better times.

Gorborev, Gorbachev's successor, continued the reforms. But his main problem were the secessionist movements within the various republics. Even the tiniest tribe in the giant state suddenly took hold of the new freedom and tried to set up their own little nation. Most of these would-be nations had a zero percent chance of survivability for economic reasons. Others were too important because of the treasures waiting in their soils. These were kept a part of Russia-often by force. But things couldn't continue this way. Thus, Gorborev had to find a solution and fast.

He founded the new and improved Union of Sovereign Soviet Republics. This was a collection of independent states akin to the EC with their own foreign policy and army. They were all united by a free trade zone that encompassed most of the former USSR. To lessen the influence some states had on key industrial facilities and natural resources, Gorborev convinced the states' leaders to re-socialize the key industries. Thus oil and coal industries were given independent bureaucracies which were theoretically governed by delegates from all participating states.

All these reforms stoked the anger of the old socialist hardliners. In an effort to bring the country back to its glorious old socialist ways, they allied with the remains of the KGB. Although the KGB had been disbanded by Gorbachev a couple of years earlier, their agents had found their way into the new Ministries of Interior of the various republics. Together they staged a coup that was later to be known as the Nights of Fire. Armed KGB troops and socialists clashed with loyal army units in a short and bloody conflict that raged all across the Neo-Soviet. The rebellion was put down fast since the rebels had overstretched their means to spread fire to all republics. Nonetheless, the cost in men and material was high.

The Nights of Fire gave the directors of the biggest industry, SovOil, a welcome excuse to apply for their own security force. They argued that the Soviet Army could not effectively defend all of SovOil's facilities from Jakutsk to Kiew. The growing nationalism in the republics made security at key facilities all the more important. The request was granted and SovOil began signing on troops.

This proved to be Gorborev's downfall when the Soviet Corporate Rebellion took place in 2002. SovOil declared itself fully independent of the state, turning into a giant corporation. The Government saw this as a threat to inner security and reacted accordingly. But the republican forces were no match for SovOil's highly motivated troops equipped with the latest technology. Grudgingly, President Gorborev admitted defeat and let SovOil go. This blow was fuel to the fires of his critics. Gorborev resigned a few years later, broken in stature.

His successor was lgor Starobin from the Ukraine. His first couple of years were marked by efforts to rebuild what had been damaged. When the republics had recovered sufficiently, new shouts for national freedom were heard by minorities and republics alike. Surprisingly, it was SovOil who countered these movements. SovOil had a vested interest in peace and stable economic surroundings. Thus the corporate directors made deals with the leaders of the secessionist movements-and used force wherever diplomacy failed. With these actions, though entirely undercover, SovOil confirmed its status as the most powerful force in the Neo-Soviet. Their resources, troops and sheer political weight made them the driving force behind the continued existence of the Union of Soverign Soviet Republics.

Ukraine
Even after two droughts, one crop killer virus and overall global weather mess-up, Ukraine stayed as the second-greatest food producer in the Neo-Soviet Union. The black soil for which the land is known is one of the most fertile soils there are, which is why the Russians kept occupying it until the 1990s.

After the Red Army took off, SovOil immediately returned and bought up 30% of all arable land. It was questioned what was better-being governed by Russians or being owned by them. The Hungarians did their thing right, re-socializing the damned Leviathan. In summer it's a green and pleasant land, in winter you get dry freeze. Unless of course, you're in the vicinity of Chernobyl. In that case, you're glowing green year-round. This doesn't pertain to the Krim. They have higher temperatures and less rain. Judging from what is here, they probably have the same queer weather the rest of the world has.

Belarus
Politics in Belarus mirror the geographical layout of the country-mainly, swampy. They are so different from the concrete city-spaces. Aside from swamps there is also lots of woodland. Woods are also great, but we'll return to that later on. Well, there's two inter- sting things in politics. First there are those socialist hardliners. They still have a majority in parliament, even if some of there more active members have been killed in the Nights of Fire. Only thing you can do is do nothing. Most of them have been with the party for forty years now and will die of age soon.

The second big thing is the ramble about rejoining Russia, they've been on about is as long as most people can remember. After establishing the monetary union back in, anytime before the turn of the century, people only talked about the grand Reunification. Consensus reality shows us that there was no base for this. Nonetheless, they still keep on talking about it.

Moldova
Moldova is one little mess of a country. There are separatists everywhere. The Dniester Republic tries to secede to the Ukraine, while Pro-Romanian nationalists want to incorporate Moldova into Romania. It's like the only reason the country hasn't been disbanded is that people can't even agree on that. There are plenty of other reasons for the country's rather distressing state. The separatist in the Dniester-Republic don't have the public support they'd need for a civil war. The Ukrainians there are happy with the deals they struck with the government. They have the position of a separate republic within Moldoval. So the rebels have to be content with growing hemp and smuggling their dope to their Ukrainian supporters. A couple of years back they made a couple of hits on city halls, but when the militia burnt their plantations, this came to a sudden stop. It was rumored they had planned on renewing their "fight for freedom". An awful lot of guns going around the DR.

The Romanian nationalists, are filled with blind idealists. Most people here share view of it being a complete waste of time. Otherwise the government would've had a serious problem. They couldn't afford to mess with any of the two neighbors. Moldova depends on the Ukraine for basically all energy related products from coal to raw current, economy here is based on farmers, with all the black soil lying around. If Moldova were to be blockaded the country would be thrown back to the Middle-Ages. The current situation is bad enough. Even Bucharest doesn't have as many brown-outs as Chisinau.

Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan
Since the break-up of the old USSR there has been tension between Russia and Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Kirgizia. Those three wanted a kind of union within the union established, which is something the Kreml didn't really like. Especially since they enjoy good relations with neighboring China (and for some reason the Czech Republic). But these problems were more or less canceled when Orthodox Christians started warring with the Muslims of that area. The Muslims announced the creation of the "Islamic Asian Republic" (IAR), which included Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan. Christians felt threatened in this state, as they were oppressed throughout its territory and began to collect weapons in order to resist their regime. Along the way, a big war broke out between the two factions. The IAR won in positions, but as a result, with the help of the SovOil troops, the war was stopped and a peace treaty was subsequently concluded. In addition, trade and military agreements were concluded with the new USSR, thanks to which the new USSR can still use Baikonur.[5]

Geography
Cyberpunk 2045 Soviet Union
Map of the Soviet Union

The Soviet Union is the world's largest area of land controlled by a single political entity, covering approximately one-seventh of Earth's land surface. It's a sovereign union made up of various somwhat independent countries. It is two and a half times the size of the United States, and only slightly smaller in land area than the entire continent of North America. It covers most of the northern half of Asia and a large part of Eastern Europe, extending even into the Middle East. About one-quarter of its territory is in Europe, and the rest in Asia. The territory of the USSR is dominated by the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic—having the same borders as contemporary Russia—which covered roughly three-quarters of the surface area of the union. The Soviets also joint control of the Kuril Islands with Japan. The U.S.S.R. covers some 8,650,000 square miles (22,400,000 square kilometres). SovOil controls most of the politics and land mass in the Soviet Union, having many facilities in every member country.[1]

Besides SovOil, the Arasaka Corporation also owns bases and facilities in Eastern Siberia.[6] Because of the the Soviet Union covering one-seventh of the Earth's land, the climate is very different across each territory. However most of the year the territory of Soviet Union stays relatively cold. There's wild open landscapes and mountains that stretch for 100's of miles, as well as ice and snow that covers all of Siberia.

Current Situation
SovOil owns much of the countryside, in the rural areas (especially in Siberia), they are the only real power. Its moles work in both the syndicates and government. The reality is if SovOil wanted to take full control it could do so easily but has chosen not to do so.

In the cities, there are three powers; SovOil, the Russian Mafia (the Organitskaya), and the State. Since the 1990s, because of the emergency decrees passed and still in effect, the president is able to make his own laws without the approval of the parliament if he desires. Bolstering his power is the Russian military service (GRU) which has become the KGB's successor. Many of the old KGB agents were reinstated into the GRU (or the Interior Ministry). The GRU is an organization that is as brutal as the KGB had been.

Major Cities
Moscow Map
Moscow

Moscow (Russian) - 12 Million
Moscow, on the Moskva River in western Russia, is the nation's cosmopolitan capital and home to the biggest corporation in the region, SovOil. In its historic core is the Kremlin, a complex that is home to the president and Tsarist treasures in the Armoury. Outside its walls is Red Square, Russia's symbolic center. It is home to Lenin's Mausoleum, the State Historical Museum's comprehensive collection and St. Basil's Cathedral, known for its colorful, onion-shaped domes.

St. Petersburg/Leningrad (Russian) - 5 Million
St
St. Petersburg

Leningrad is a Russian port city on the Baltic Sea. It was the imperial capital for two centuries, having been founded in 1703 by Peter the Great, subject of the city's iconic "Bronze Horseman" statue. It remains Russia's cultural center, with venues such as the Mariinsky Theatre hosting opera and ballet, and the State Russian Museum showcasing Russian art, from Orthodox icon paintings to Kandinsky works.

Kyiv (Ukrainian) - 3 Million
Kyiv is the capital and most populous city of Ukraine. It is in north-central Ukraine along the Dnieper River. Kyiv is an important industrial, scientific, educational and cultural center of Eastern Europe.

Tashkent (Uzbek) - 2.8 Million
Tashkent is the capital city of Uzbekistan. It's known for its many museums and its mix of modern and Soviet architecture. The Amir Timur Museum houses manuscripts, weapons and other relics from the Timurid dynasty. Nearby, the huge State Museum of History of Uzbekistan has centuries-old Buddhist artifacts. The city's skyline is distinguished by Tashkent Tower, which offers city views from its observation deck.

Baku (Azerbaijan) - 2 Million
Baku, the capital and commercial hub of Azerbaijan, is a low-lying city with coastline along the Caspian Sea. It is famed for its medieval walled old city, which contains the Palace of the Shirvanshahs, a vast royal complex, and the iconic stone Maiden Tower. Contemporary landmarks include the Zaha Hadid–designed Heydar Aliyev Center, and the Flame Towers, 3 pointed skyscrapers covered with LED screens.

Timeline
Russian port (Cyberpunk Sourcebook, Eurosource Plus)
Russian port

The timeline of major events of the Soviet Union in the Cyberpunk universe.

1910
1917
Bolshevik Revolution: Czar Nicholas abdicates; Bolsheviks, led by Vladimir Ilyich Lenin, take control; Russian Soviet Socialist Republic established; capital moves to Moscow.
1918
Bolsheviks assassinate czar.
Red Terror begins.
1920
1921
Red Terror: Lenin purges Communist Party, socializes economy; 5 million die of famine.
Lenin inaugurates New Economic Policy, allows limited free-market measures
1922
Russia, Ukraine, Belorussia, Transcaucasia (present-day Armenia, Georgia, Azerbaijan) form Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
1924
Joseph Stalin consolidates power; inaugurates first Five-Year Plan, collectivizes agriculture, industrializes; famine returns
1929
Joseph Stalin's Five-Year Plan ends.
1930
1936
Millions die in Stalin's Great Purge (through 1953).
1940
1941
WW2: Germany invades Russia.
1945
WW2: World War II ends; Russia occupies Eastern Europe, establishes puppet governments, Cold War takes shape.
1949
Soviets explode atomic device.
1950
1953
Stalin dies; Nikita Khrushchev becomes first secretary of the Communist Party.
1956
Khrushchev denounces Stalin.
1960
1960
Arkady Cherminino is born.
1962
Cuban Missile Crisis, Khrushchev withdraws missiles from Cuba.
1964
Leonid Brezhnev helps engineer Khrushchev's fall from power, becomes first secretary of the Communist Party.
1969
Major border clashes with China.
1970
1972
Détente: President Richard Nixon visits USSR, signs arms control treaties with Chairman Brezhnev.
1978
Soviets invade Afghanistan.
1980
1985
General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev attempts to improve faltering economy with glasnost (openness) and perestroika (restructuring).
1990
1990
Soviet Union president Gorbachev appoints successor, Andrei Gorborev. The USSR enters into a period of reform.
1994
The Soviet Union ends and the Union of Sovereign Soviet Republics is formed.
1997
The KGB Rebellion occurs in the USSR. The event is known as the Nights of Fire.
Anatoly Novikovo lays the groundwork for a private army using the remnants of the OMON Unit.
1998
SovOil is founded by Anatoly Novikovo in Moscow, Russia.
2000
2002
SovOil declares itself independent of the USSR government. As a result, Gorborev resigns in disgrace.
Igor Starobin is named president of the USSR.
Lupold Korepino is promoted to General of the Soviet Army.
2004
Lupold Korepino joins SovOil.
2005
Peter Van Rijen joins SovOil.
2006
SovOil is granted a license to produce CHOOH2.
2007
Lupold Korepino is named commander of the SovOil armed forces.
The Second Corporate War begins.
2009
Joint Euro-Soviet mission to Mars begins.
Anatoly Novikovo is assassinated by Petrochem.
Yarno Kurgasyn assumes control of SovOil.
2010
2010
The Second Corporate War ends.
Earthquake decimates Romania, 267 are killed in Bucharest.
2012
Yarno Kurgasyn retires from SovOil.
Arkady Cherminino assumes control of SovOil.
2015
Latvia attempts to invade Lithuania. Cyber-mercenaries repel the invasion.
2018
Poland is attacked by Czechoslovakia but are repelled.
Romania invades Bulgaria.
Greece annexes Macedonia with the aid of Albania. In retaliation Serbia invades Albania.
Pritap Suwarti is assassinated.
2019
Albania is annexed by Yugoslavia.
2020
2020
The Second Joint SovOil ESA Mars mission is successful.

Tokyo (東京), a part of Tokyo Prefecture and officially Tokyo Metropolis (東京都), is the capital city of Japan. It has served as the Japanese capital since 1869, its urban area housing the Emperor of Japan and the Japanese government.[1]

Tokyo forms part of the Kanto region on the southeastern side of Japan's main island, Honshu, and includes the Izu Islands and Ogasawara Islands. It has remained the cultural center of the country and has had an influx of refugees raising its metropolis population to 57 million. Tokyo is also home to the various Zaibatsus, such as: Arasaka, Kendachi, FACS, Fujiwara, SegAtari, and many more large corporations.[2]


Contents
1	Overview
2	History
2.1	Early History
2.2	1990s
2.3	2000s
2.4	2077
3	Geography
3.1	Tokyo Wards
3.2	Weather
3.3	Islands
3.4	Hachijo - Island Paradise
4	Locations of Interest
4.1	Kasumigaseki: The Government Quarter
4.2	Marunouchi: The Business District
4.3	Ochanomizu: College Town
4.4	Roppongi: Music Capital
4.5	Shibuya: The Height of All Fashion
4.6	Shinjuku: Shopping, Sex, Bars, Clubs, Brandance, & VRcades
4.7	Imperial Palace
4.8	Tokyo Bay Crossway
4.9	Tokyo Disney City
5	Economy & Shopping
5.1	Akihabara
5.2	Akasaka
5.3	Kanda, Jinbocho, Ochanomizu
5.4	Ueno, Okachimachi
5.5	Harajuku
5.6	Shinjuku
5.7	Ikebukuro
5.8	Shibuya
5.9	Ginza
5.10	Chiba
5.11	Komike
6	Infrastructure
6.1	Transportation
6.2	Tokyo AeroSpace Port-Chiba
6.3	The Docks
7	Culture
8	Notable people
9	Notes
10	Trivia
11	Gallery
12	References
Overview
Tokyo has remained the capital of Japan since 1868 and is located in the middle of the main island of Honshu on the Pacific Coast, apart of the Kanto region. The climate is generally cold and wet, during winter it is freezing and can snow usually for about 10 days of the year, and during summer it's hot and humid.[2] Tokyo City's population is around 14 million, however greater metropolitan area of the Tokyo Prefecture is around 57 million, with around 34 million being in the city on a daily for work. The trains at their peak periods of the day run at 300% to 400% capacity.

Tokyo is both one of the safest and one of the dangerous cities in the world. It's kept safe by the hordes of corporate police controlled by the Zaibatsus. However the corporations only interfere when their profits are hurt. This is where the national police or local yakuza come in to keep the streets clean of crime. The city is kept clean and safe in high density areas.

Tokyo has only been the capital since the mid 1800s, during the time of the Meiji Restoration of the Emperor. For 1,000 years before that however, the capital of Japan was Kyoto. Since becoming the capital, Tokyo has expanded non-stop, decaying, and rebuilding in a strange cycle of progression.[1] Order, disorder, development, and corruption, and life and death often co-exist together. During it's history there has been three notable events that disrupted this cycle. The first one was the Great Kanto Earthquake of 1922, which had destroyed much of the city. The second was when the Allies firebombed Tokyo during WW2 took place, which also destroyed the city. The finale one was the Jiage (arson and intimidation by fixers to clear tenants from suitable land) during the 1980s bubble economy. Despite these setbacks Tokyo has not only come back, but has gotten stronger each time.[2]

Very few of the citizens are Tokyo natives. Since it's inception as the new capital, most of the population has traveled to Tokyo for work. Originally it was a lot of rural Japanese who came to work in the capital city. During the New Year and Bon festivals, Tokyo would empty out as people would go back home for the holidays. Sine the early 1970s gaijin (foriegners) had started pouring into the city. With the growth of the Japanese and foreign populations, Tokyo had been put under stresses it never had before with the ongoing housing crisis.

Many Japanese tend to criticize the people from Tokyo for being overly concerned with style, appearance, and composure. Often times people have said they give a cold and uncaring feeling. People of the Kanto region are already much different from the rest of Japan. Those born in Tokyo often don't leave the city, because of its size, it's assumed to have everything a person could need.[2]

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

History
Early History
Old Tokyo
Old Tokyo

The history of the city of Tokyo stretches back some 400 years. Originally named Edo, the city started to flourish after Tokugawa Ieyasu established the Tokugawa Shogunate here in 1603. Birth place of small business turned big, Kendachi was originally a small weaponsmith in the city of Edo. As the center of politics and culture in Japan, Edo grew into a huge city with a population of over a million by the mid-eighteenth century. Throughout this time, the Emperor resided in Kyoto, which was the formal capital of the nation. The Edo Period lasted for nearly 260 years until the Meiji Restoration in 1868, when the Tokugawa Shogunate ended and imperial rule was restored. The Emperor moved to Edo, which was renamed Tokyo. Thus, Tokyo became the capital of Japan.[2]

Central Tokyo, like Osaka, has been designed since about 1900 to be centered on major railway stations in a high-density fashion, so suburban railways were built relatively cheaply at street level and with their own right-of-way. Though expressways have been built in Tokyo, the basic design had not changed. The city became the main base for industry and commerce, with zaibatsus popping up everywhere, more notably were companies like Mitsubishi and Arasaka. Tokyo went on to suffer two major catastrophes in the 20th century: the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake, which left 140,000 dead or missing; and World War II.[2] Sasai Arasaka foresaw the catastrophe to hit Japan after WWII, and worked to ensure his company and fortune would survive the war by spreading his wealth across the globe, out of the reach of the post-war leadership.

After the war, Tokyo was completely rebuilt and was showcased to the world during the 1964 Summer Olympics. The 1970s brought new high-rise developments such as Sunshine 60, a new and controversial airport in Narita in 1978, and a population increase to about 11 million. Tokyo's subway and commuter rail network became one of the busiest in the world as more and more people moved to the area. The Jiage (arson and intimidation by fixers to clear tenants from salabe land) during the 1980s bubble economy became another catastrophe for Tokyo to overcome. Despite the setback Tokyo had not only come back, but had gotten stronger as it's economy flourished.

1990s
Arasaka during the 1990s quickly was becoming the largest and most influential Megacorporation in the world.[1] Saburo Arasaka used his influence to try and take control of the government in Tokyo, which led to a group of many other Japanese corporations big and small to form a group known as FACS to counter them. The population of the city getting larger by the day, expansion was needed in order to house the 57 million people. Tokyo also became the leading city of cyberware tech in the world.[2]

2000s
In 2010, the Tokyo Bay Crossway an Auto Defense System was installed to prevent a terrorist attack that could appear in the Bridge. However in 2018, the Ministry of Science and Technology lost communication with the Bridge. No definitive answer was ever found, Tokyo police were call in along side Chiba police and even Arasaka riot control groups, but nothing was effective in taking back the bridge. The bridge became inhabited with unemployed Nomad-types, bosozoku, refugees, and other criminals.

In 2023, conflict during the Fourth Corporate War also found its way to Tokyo. However fights did not last long as the government cracked down on Arasaka, preventing any further conflict within the city.

2077
In 2077, the Arasaka Corporation put 27 billion New Yen towards fixing the housing crisis in the city. The Japanese government also put forth the idea of draining part of Tokyo Bay in order to make room for more megabuildings.

Bioengineers celebrated the first successful cloning of a cave lion. Scientists from Tokyo, Seoul, and Yakutsk used genetic material from the remains of an ancient female lion discovered in a bog near Kolyma river in Northern Siberia.

The Nippon Daily Corporation reported on the Relic biochip a new premium line developed by Arasaka, which they later confirmed to be accurate and revealed afterwards.

Famous braindance producer, Hideyoshi Oshima, had strived to create real emotionally touching human experiences within his BD studio in Tokyo. For inspiration Hideyoshi travelled to Night City staying at Konpeki Plaza where he met with BD talent.[3]

Geography
Tokyo Wards
Special wards are a special form of municipalities in Japan under the 1947 Local Autonomy Law. They are city-level wards: primary subdivisions of a prefecture with municipal autonomy largely comparable to other forms of municipalities.

Wards	Districts
Adachi	Ayase, Kitasenju, Takenotsuka
Arakawa	Arakawa, Machiya, Nippori, Minamisenju
Bunkyō	Hongō, Yayoi, Hakusan
Chiyoda	Nagatachō, Kasumigaseki, Ōtemachi, Marunouchi, Akihabara, Yūrakuchō, Iidabashi
Chūō	Nihonbashi, Kayabachō, Ginza, Tsukiji, Hatchōbori, Shinkawa, Tsukishima, Kachidoki, Tsukuda,
Edogawa	Kasai, Koiwa
Itabashi	Itabashi, Takashimadaira
Katsushika	Tateishi, Aoto
Kita	Akabane, Ōji, Tabata
Kōtō	Kiba, Ariake, Kameido, Tōyōchō, Monzennakachō, Fukagawa, Kiyosumi, Shirakawa, Etchūjima, Sunamachi, Aomi
Meguro	Meguro, Nakameguro, Jiyugaoka
Minato	Akasaka, Odaiba, Shinbashi, Shinagawa, Roppongi, Toranomon, Aoyama, Azabu, Hamamatsuchō, Tamachi
Nakano	Nakano
Nerima	Nerima, Ōizumi, Hikarigaoka
Ōta	Ōmori, Kamata, Haneda, Den-en-chōfu
Setagaya	Setagaya, Kitazawa, Kinuta, Karasuyama, Tamagawa
Shibuya	Shibuya, Ebisu, Harajuku, Hiroo, Sendagaya, Yoyogi
Shinagawa	Shinagawa, Gotanda, Ōsaki, Hatanodai, Ōimachi
Shinjuku	Shinjuku, Takadanobaba, Ōkubo, Kagurazaka, Ichigaya
Suginami	Kōenji, Asagaya, Ogikubo
Sumida	Kinshichō, Morishita, Ryōgoku
Taitō	Ueno, Asakusa
Toshima	Ikebukuro, Komagome, Senkawa, Sugamo
Weather
In Tokyo, the summers are short, warm, muggy, wet, and mostly cloudy and the winters are very cold and mostly clear. Over the course of the year, the temperature typically varies from 36°F to 87°F and is rarely below 31°F or above 93°F.

Islands
Tokyo has numerous outlying islands, which extend as far as 1,850 km (1,150 mi) from central Tokyo. Because of the islands' distance from the administrative headquarters of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government in Shinjuku, local subprefectural branch offices administer them.

The Izu Islands are a group of volcanic islands and form part of the Fuji-Hakone-Izu National Park. The islands in order from closest to Tokyo are Izu Ōshima, Toshima, Nii-jima, Shikine-jima, Kōzu-shima, Miyake-jima, Mikurajima, Hachijō-jima, and Aogashima. The Izu Islands are grouped into three subprefectures. Izu Ōshima and Hachijojima are towns. The remaining islands are six villages, with Niijima and Shikinejima forming one village.[2]

Hachijo - Island Paradise
Hachijo is a city located on one of Tokyos islands, it's a paradise vacation spot where many Japanese corporate, and many others from around the world, come to visit and stay in one of the many hotels in the island. The island has top security and rarely sees non-wealthy individuals visiting.[2]

Locations of Interest
Kasumigaseki: The Government Quarter
This is Japan's administrative center. Government ministry and agency buildings cluster here, south of the Imperial Palace. The Japanese parliament meets at the towering National Diet Building which overlooks the district. Tokyo police are very visible here.[2]

Marunouchi: The Business District
This district is between Tokyo Station and the Imperial Palace, and is the city's Corporate center, or business center housing such corporations as Arasaka, Kiroshi, Fujiwara, and son on. Tall skyscrapers standing row upon row contain the headquarters of the leading banks and zaibatsus. The police and Arasaka security police also keep this district under close scrutiny for the protection of the corporate giants.

Ochanomizu: College Town
Ochanomizu, on the elevated Japanese Rail (JR) Chuo Line, is the college district of Tokyo. A few minutes walk downhill from the station is the atmospheric Jimbocho section filled with hundreds of bookstores. Shelves of Japanese and foreign books including second-hand ones are for sale. This quarter also boasts the Tokyo Komingu Kottokan building, containing more than 50 antique shops, and the Nicolaido, an out of place Russian Orthodox cathedral. On the other side of the station stands the Yushima Seido Temple and the Kanda Myojin Shrine. There are plenty of universities in Tokyo, the largest, Tokyo University, is west of Ueno Park. Others include the Meiji, Nihon, Medical & Dental, Hosei, Keio, Waseda, Rikkyo and Gakushuin Universities. There is an informal, decadent and underground feel to life here, due to the student and ex-student population. Music, cults, gangs, clubs and flats cater to this young population.

Roppongi: Music Capital
This is an entertainment district with a sophisticated and exciting atmosphere. Roppongi's nightlife picks up at around 11 pm. There are literally hundreds of coffee shops, bars, pubs and restaurants - from cheap to moderately priced. Tokyo's most fashionable nightclubs are here. The famous Black Rain club in Roppongi was the scene in 2220 of the infamous Yakuza rocket attack that killed 11 and wounded 14.There are clubs and discos with the best music and DJs, and plenty of live music. Bands from across Japan play here to be heard and appreciated. Foreigners (gaijin)prefer the clubs in Roppongi and are well catered for. It is a very cosmopolitan place. Roppongi Hills, a vast complex of apartments, shops, offices, restaurants, hotels and even a museum. In nearby Shiba Park stands the famous red and white Tokyo Tower, a vast Eiffel tower-like broadcast mast 333m high, standing high on a knoll.

Shibuya: The Height of All Fashion
This is an action-packed amusement and shopping district, and is always crowded with young people day and night. Koen-dori Street is filled with colorful shopping complexes and department stores all boasting the latest fashions. The old Olympic Stadium and the Meji Shrine lie beyond Koen-dori. Close by is the NHK Broadcast Center, owned by the state-run Japanese radio and TV corporation. Shibuya is high profile home of the media industry. Celebrities are seen here (and also many tourists) and the district has many connections with the industry. A lot of money moves around Shibuya, wealth is conspicuous. There are cool fashion stores, restaurants, bars and hang-outs.

Shinjuku: Shopping, Sex, Bars, Clubs, Brandance, & VRcades
This is another one of Tokyo's major shopping and amusement districts. It is also an important transportation center, served by the suburban railways of Keio, Seibu and Odakyu, and two subway lines as well as Japan Rail. A huge highway bus terminal, Busta Shinjuku, sits on top of the Shinjuku railway station. To the west of busy Shinjuku Station is the impressive skyscraper district, Tokyo's second skyline. Some of these buildings are hotels, others are corporate buildings with underground shopping arcades, and restaurants on the upper floors with marvelous views. Most of the skyscrapers are covered with vast video advertising screens.

East of the station, however, is Kabukicho, an ancient entertainment section where rich and poor, tourist and criminals mix. The area is packed with an array of drinking places, pachinko parlors, love hotels and entertainment venues. However, Kabukicho includes bars and clubs that are seriously seedy: Tokyo's worst places are here in Kabukicho. The Yakuza control the area with (quite literally) a vice-like grip. Kabukicho is full of drug-houses, 'soapland' massage parlors, gambling joints, ganghaunts, strip clubs, simstim porn clubs; whatever pays well and is border or extralegal. Tokyo's Soho. Much of the Yakuza is located in this district.[2]

Imperial Palace
Beyond the Marunouchi district, is the Imperial Palace, and it is where the Imperial family once resided. It covers 100 hectares and its impressive watchtowers and massive stone walls still survive in 2225. The Palace Plaza, East Garden and Kitanomaru Park are all major attractions. The wide and open Plaza, with its Double Bridge or the Nijubashi, is an haven for sararimen and young couples. A memorial fountain exists there, and was built to commemorate the marriage of the Crown Prince and Princess. Next to the Palace Plaza is Hibaya Park, a beautiful park, in style partly Japanese and partly Western. The Hibaya Public Hall and Library are in its enclosure. The nearby Hibaya district is the 'Broadway of Tokyo', jammed with of cinemas and theaters.[2]

Tokyo Bay Crossway
The Tokyo Bay Crossway was built at the turn of the century. It largely consists of 10 km of underwater tunnels, and 5 km of bridge crossing the bay. By the year 2010, law and order had declined fast and an Auto Defense System was installed to prevent a terrorist attack that could appear in the Bridge. Guard robots moving in and out of the small maintenance ducks were considered powerful enough to take on any head on attack by a terrorist group.[1][2]

However in 2018, the Ministry of Science and Technology lost communication with the Bridge, which then took matters into it's own hands. Many different theories have surfaced over the years, one of the more popular ones is a virus took over the central AI and caused it to go rogue, but there still is no definitive answer.

First, the traffic lights all went down. Afterwards a small Security Office was attacked by their own drones, and then people were forced out. The Tokyo Police from Keishi-cho, Chiba Prefecture Police, and Arasaka Riot team upon request from the S&T Ministry attempted to take back the central computer, but they couldn't seem to reach it. Control from the Net to this day hasn't been established. The Bridge went rogue.

Not too long after, homeless started to migrate to the Bridge. These "Bridge People" aren't seen as enemies from the defense system, that is if they stay 200 meters away from the Control Room. Most of them live in the underwater sections of the bridge. Also, there are many who live on the artificial islands that support the aboveground portion of the bridge, and the girders of the bridge. The Tokyo Police have put it on record that around 8,000 people live in the Bridge.

As stated the people who live here are usually unemployed Nomad-types who aren't able to afford living in the big cities of Tokyo or Chiba. There's also a small portion of gaijin and Nambei-jin who are the first to go in a job crunch. There's also quite a few criminals who have also taken refuge. Since Arasaka is the law in Kanagawa, and Chiba Prefectural Police rule in Chiba, the bridge was always a jurisdiction gray zone; now a days it's just a sovereign territory.

As long as there's no skirmishes above a certain level, the bridge doesn't really interfere with the rest of the public. On rare occasions, a small riot team will go in to arrest a criminal who escaped to this location. However not all crimes will be cashed down here, big ones like Nov. 6, 2018, will be squashed with extreme force.

In the present day, the defenses appear to be invincible. There is plenty of ammo, as the auto-factories around the bridge legs keep making more from construction material stockpiles intended for the bridge itself. The government an local policing forces do not see the situation changing anytime soon.[1]

Tokyo Disney City
Tokyo Disney City is located in Chiba, and operated by a Japanese corporation that handles the Disney licenses. Everyone is scanned for weapons on entrance by the companies own trained security team. The New VR BBS is at the corporate mainframe in central Tokyo. Tokyo Disney City is a 115-acre theme park at the Tokyo Disney Resort in Urayasu, Chiba Prefecture, Japan. Its main gate is directly adjacent to both Maihama Station and Tokyo Disneyland Station. It was the first Disney park to be built outside the NUSA, and it opened on 15 April 1983. In 2020, it was known as the prefect place for Yanks to enjoy All-American traditions and good inexpensive shopping. Disney City is also well known for their groundbreaking technology and out of this world security.[1][2]

Economy & Shopping
Misc Image ArasakaTower
Arasaka Tokyo Tower 2020

Tokyo has the largest metropolitan economy in the world. According to a study conducted, the Greater Tokyo Area (Tokyo-Yokohama) of 57 million people had a total GDP of $8 trillion in 2045 (at purchasing power parity), which topped that list. The Tokyo region is Japan's leading industrial center, with a highly diversified manufacturing base. Heavy industries are concentrated in Chiba, Kawasaki, and Yokohama, while Tokyo proper is strongly inclined toward light industry, including book printing and the production of electronic equipment.[1]

More significantly, perhaps, Tokyo is Japan's management and finance center. Corporations, or Zaibatsus, with headquarters or branches or production sites in other parts of the country often have large offices in Tokyo, Marunouchi being the location of many of these. The close relationship between government and business in Japan makes a Tokyo location advantageous if not necessary.

To the north of Marunouchi is Otemachi, where Japan's leading financial institutions and insurance companies are located. Otemachi is also home to NTT, the communications giant. Tokyo is also the site of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, located in Kabutocho. Arasaka the world's most influential Megacorporation and largest Japanese conglomerate is located in Chuo, each division of Arasaka is controlled through Tokyo.

Tokyo holds the most corporate headquarters and regional offices compared to any other major city. So many of which either were founded and came here in the hopes of finding big business and plenty of opportunity. Kendachi, SegAtari, Fujiwara, and Mitsubishi are some of the many corporations that were founded within the city.

Tokyo is the heart of industry and consumption finding something inexpensive, unusual, or not exactly legal; are all found in different well-known shopping centers. These shopping centers are found all over the city.[1][2]

Akihabara
Tokyo
Tokyo 2020 Shopping

Akihabara is center of Otaku culture, electronic equipment, and parts; Computers, VR and Braindance sets, Black-market Programs, Cyberware, new & used. Anime is very big within this area with many ads and stores showcasing latest Anime BDs. Gaming is also a large part of the Akihabara center. Most people can find legitimate, non-cutting edge electronics for 20% to 70% off. Looking around at some of the indie dealers, there's even custom work, or newtech undiscovered by the corps. This place is famous worldwide for its jungle of neon signs and laser ads of otaku culture in Tokyo.

Akasaka
Akasaka is a traditional geisha district, very possible to see rickshaws carrying their gorgeously dressed high-priced hostesses through the streets in the early evening. Akasaka is also home to Tokyo's most exclusive nightclubs. Many affluent Chinese moved here during and after MLC's invasions of Hong Kong. Chinese businesses began to thrive in Akasaka during the 2020s. There are many upmarket clubs, shows and restaurants. It is known as a real 'foodie' area, with hundreds of international food bars and restaurants. The temple, the Hie Shrine, sits on a small hill reached by a steep flight of steps.

Kanda, Jinbocho, Ochanomizu
These places hold books of all kinds, local Japanese works, Manga, Foreign books, Sports equipment, Musical instruments. Any book published in Japan can be found here. Even rare, old books are around, some with old Zaibatsu addresses, or written in coded script. Reading is still considered to be a worthwhile skill.

Ueno, Okachimachi
Surplus military goods, food and drinks at 10%-50% off (at night, synthifish sushi at 90% off), forged cred chips and IDs.

Harajuku
Harajuku is the fashion center of Tokyo. Omote Sando and Meiji Dori streets are lined with boutiques ranging from the conservative but fashionable to the extremely exotic. All fashions are sold at prices four to five times of normal wear. Such is the sacrifice one must make to keep in style. Stores like Eji of Japan or Tanaka Exec are also found here. It's relationship with pop culture has also drawn the younger crowd to Harajuku. Most afternoons, the walkways are filled with young men and women looking for fashion accessories. And on every Sunday, Omote Sando becomes a vehicle free promenade for street performers and impromptu concerts.

Shinjuku
Black-market goods such as Drygs, Handguns, Cyberware, and Programs, Prostitutes. This is a famous Yakuza stronghold in Tokyo. Pretty much anything illegal can be found here. Many Yakuza families share territory here; the boundaries aren't in blocks, but in building to building, room by room. Sometimes buildings will have the Nawabari (sign) of several different clans. This area is pretty safe, as the clans don't fight here, for fear of hurting business. People of any nationality can be found here, dealing or working at Yakuza-owned bars and nightclubs. Even pampees are safe here, as long as they don't get too deep.

Ikebukuro
This district once became a new sub center of Tokyo after the expensive Sunshine City development appeared to the east of Ikebukuro Station. There is an aquarium, a theater and the Orient Museum within the Sunshine City compound. It is a gateway to Tokyo's northwestern suburbs, Ikebukuro is served by suburban railway lines as well as metropolitan subway lines to central Tokyo, and these are often crowded with commuters. Ikebukuro has its own 'feel', its own restaurants and shopping and its own bars and eating places. It has a large corporate population, and so is a little staid.

Shibuya
Black-market goods and information. This is a Teamer gang area, and like Shinjuku, mostly anything can be found here, but with less of a Yakuza influence. Lone-wolf marketers who don't want to be Yakuza dominated come here, but inter-gang war is common. VRcades and much fashion line the streets. This area is one of the more crowded areas in all of Tokyo.

Ginza
Ginza was once the largest downtown area in Tokyo. This area once flourished from the trade between the high-class northern part of Tokyo and the merchants and fishing trade generated by Tokyo Bay. Ginza itself means "silver gathering." Today there are four large department stores located here, Matsuya, Mitsukoshi, Matsuzakaya, and Hankyu, along with numerous other shops, restaurants, and nightclubs. A traditional Kabuki Theater is located in Ginza as well.

Chiba
Across from Tokyo City is Chiba, while not apart of Tokyo it is often considered to be the best shopping center of legal and illegal Medtech, Cyberware, Bodybanks. The world's finest Medtechs are here, working on the Cybertech edge. This is also a living-body test ground for Mega-corps.

Komike
Manga, Anime, VR & films, Braindance, Programs, Info. The world's largest underground market, held every summer and winter at Harumi World Trade Center, Tokyo. Medias are here selling everything from manga and fanzines to the latest anti-Arasaka information. Many people sell their own work here by entering as a Circle. Since there are so many Circles here, to find any really good info, they need Streetwise and Expert (Dojin Circle) skills, to know who to talk to. Of course, there are no illegal goods sold here.

Infrastructure
Transportation
Tokyo, similar to the rest of Japan, has the world's most sufficient and advance metro network and bullet train system that runs through the city to the suburbs and to the rest of the country. The metros remain busy and crowded, this is due to the numbers of armed guards that the companies employ, the trains are very safe, and unruly passengers are often quickly dealt with.[1]

Public Buses: Most of the train companies operate the bus routs as well. The buses are decently kept up, but hampered by the fact that they must use the roads, because of this most of the general public use the trains. Very often the buses are often seen as the vehicles for the poor.
Cars: Tokyo has a popular car culture, many people would also sleep in their personal cars; possibly finding some people living in them and even having sex in, however most people rarely use them to go around the city. The roads are narrow and rarely see traffic, especially outside Tokyo, where bosozoku gangs are known to attack. Most of the cars, usually from Toyota, Honda, or Takaya, are equipped with TVs and massage seats to be more relaxed and pass the time after work.
Motorcycles: Motorcycles are much faster than cars, and much more popular with the general public. Riders on Hondas, Suzukis, and Kawasakis zipping along between rows of cars is a very common sight in Tokyo.
Aerodynes: AVs are aggressively utilized, but there are so many restrictions in highly populated areas like low-altitude limits, and high altitude limit when approaching near the Imperial Palace, people not accustomed to Tokyo are usually recommended to not fly.
Tokyo AeroSpace Port-Chiba
The Tokyo AeroSpace Port is located in Chiba and handles much of the traffic of tourist, immigrants, or refugees that come into Tokyo. The station is duty-free and has smuggled goods come through daily. This is one of the largest and busiest AeroSpace ports in the world. The security is incredibly tight for passengers. There are so many people and packages passing through, the security guards only use scanners to inspect baggage. Because of this it made it easy for criminals or Solos to sneak in weapons, drugs, or illegal tech.

The Docks
Tokyo Docks are vast and made up of piers, wharfs, warehousing complexes, factories and industrial estates. Much of it is fenced off and in a perpetual arc-light daytime. People live there too, but the housing complexes are fairly run-down and undesirable. Generally, people have moved out and light industry, warehousing and the container port machinery have moved in.[2]

Culture
Tokyo has many museums. In Ueno Park, there is the Tokyo National Museum, the country's largest museum and specializing in traditional Japanese art; the National Museum of Western Art and Ueno Zoo. Other museums include the National Museum of Emerging Science and Innovation in Odaiba; the Edo-Tokyo Museum in Sumida, across the Sumida River from the center of Tokyo; the Nezu Museum in Aoyama; and the National Diet Library, National Archives, and the National Museum of Modern Art, which are near the Imperial Palace.

Tokyo has many theaters for performing arts. These include national and private theaters for traditional forms of Japanese drama. Noteworthy are the National Noh Theatre for noh and the Kabuki-za for Kabuki. Symphony orchestras and other musical organizations perform modern and traditional music. Tokyo also hosts modern Japanese and international pop, and rock music at venues ranging in size from intimate clubs to internationally known areas such as the Nippon Budokan.

Many different festivals occur throughout Tokyo. Major events include the Sannō at Hie Shrine, the Sanja at Asakusa Shrine, and the biennial Kanda Festivals. The last features a parade with elaborately decorated floats and thousands of people. Annually on the last Saturday of July, an enormous fireworks display over the Sumida River attracts over a million viewers. Once cherry blossoms bloom in spring, many residents gather in Ueno Park, Inokashira Park, and the Shinjuku Gyoen National Garden for picnics under the blossoms. Harajuku, a neighborhood in Shibuya, is known internationally for its youth style, fashion, cyberware, and cosplay.

Notable people
Shinka Tenno (the 125th Emperor of Japan)
Jinkyoku Tenno (the 128th Empress of Japan)
Jirou Kikuchi (The Prime Minister of Japan in 2022 to 2023)
Daijiro Adachi (The Prime Minister of Japan in 1996 to 1997)
Sasai Arasaka (the founder and former CEO of the Arasaka Corporation, father of Saburo Arasaka and husband of Yui Arasaka)
Saburo Arasaka (CEO of the Arasaka Corporation and son of Sasai Arasaka)
Kei Arasaka (eldest son of Saburo Arasaka and CEO of the Arasaka Corporation from 1997 to 2023, lived in Night City, United States of America until his death)
Kenji Arasaka (the main shareholder of the Arasaka and former CEO)
Toshiro (board member of the Arasaka Corporation, based in Night City, United States of America)
Yorinobu Arasaka (the middle son of Saburo Arasaka, the heir of of the Arasaka Corporation, Kei Arasaka's younger step-brother and Hanako Arasaka's older brother)
Hanako Arasaka (Saburo Arasaka's younger daughter, head of the Kiji Faction of the Arasaka Corporation, Kei Arasaka's younger step-sister and Yorinobu Arasaka's younger sister)
Seicho Harada (the second in command of Security for the Arasaka complex at Industrial Park)
Kaminia Kanzaki (maid at the Japanese consul in Night City, currently based in Night City, United States of America)
Azakuchi Toranoga (Techno artist)
Michiko Arasaka (Kei Arasaka's daughter and head of the Hato Faction of the Arasaka Corporation, currently based in Night City, United States of America)
Kamina Wazashi (insurance investigator, currently based in Night City, United States of America)
Yoshiuki "The Yosh" Koriyama (Basketball Player for The Night City Heat, currently based in Night City, United States of America)
Corporate Ninja
Okiyo (sideman of Yorinobu Arasaka in the Steel Dragons bosozoku gang)
Yamiko Kuramoto (member of Kuramoto family and one of the owners of Kuramoto Galleries in Night City, currently based in Night City, United States of America)
Mitshiko Anasho (corporate contractor, currently based in Night City, United States of America)
Tomiko Tomobiki (the left hand to the Go!Go!Go! gang in Tokyo)
Hazumi Ihara (the leader of the otaku posergang Go!Go!Go!)
Jigen Kyusho (the leader of the Winter Dragon Yakuza clan's Night City branch, currently based in Night City, United States of America)
Tammi-Lu Honganji (Fixer, currently based in New York City, United States of America)
Toshiro Hikaru (the regional manager of Arasaka security in France, Holland, Luxembourg, Germany, the Netherlands, and Denmark, currently based in Osaka)
Kagekaze (Jo-nin Shinobi, currently based in Benkei Island Training Facility)
Mihoshi Oni (Solo, currently based in Night City, United States)
Yoshitune (sideman of Yorinobu Arasaka in the Steel Dragons bosozoku gang)
Natsumi Kiyoshi (corporate contractor, currently based in Night City, United States)
Michiko Yashida (the owner of Michikos, currently based in Night City, United States)
Blue Moon (Japanese pop idol and member of J-pop girlgroup Us Cracks)
Notes
As the largest population center in Japan and the site of the country's largest broadcasters and studios, Tokyo is frequently the setting for many Japanese movies, television shows, animated series (anime), web comics, light novels, video games, and comic books (manga). In the kaiju (monster movie) genre, landmarks of Tokyo are usually destroyed by giant monsters such as Gojira and Gamera.
Trivia
The City of Tokyo has around 13.9 million, with the Greater Tokyo Metropolitan area having over 40 million people.
Tokyo Skytree was announced as the tallest tower in the world in 2010. The Skytree features the world's highest skywalk as well as presents a very beautiful view to its less daring visitors. The name of this tower was decided by popular vote winning by a landslide with 30% of total votes.
The cherry blossom is the national symbol of Japan. These trees flower for one or two weeks a year starting in April. This period is known as Hanami, the long standing tradition of welcoming spring. This festival is about appreciating the temporary beauty of nature.
Tokyo is a city that loves its seafood. There is a wholesale fish market called Tsukiji. This is the busiest and largest fish market in the world. Live tuna auctions are the main attraction, which take place every morning at 5 am sharp. This is a major tourist attraction and free visitor tickets are given to the public every morning at 4 am.

Hong Kong (香港), now known as Ghost World, was a special administrative region on the eastern side of the Pearl River estuary in southern China. With over 9.12 million people of various nationalities in a 1,104-square-kilometre (426 sq mi) territory, Hong Kong was one of the most densely populated places in the world.[1] By 2025, the region was completely destroyed physically by a plague, but regained life in the form of Alt Cunningham's digital consciousness forming an artificial intelligence society within the remnants of the NET in the region.[2]


Contents
1	Overview
2	History
3	Neo-HK Merc Force
4	Climate
5	Gallery
6	Reference
Overview
In 2020, Hong Kong had become a shell of what it once was. Hong Kong still functioned as any other city, corporations took over the city after the conflicts took place in the late 1990s with the MLC. Much of Hong Kong was in shambles, the walled off city within the city still works to their own benefit. Triads rule over and hold influence over the west side of the peninsula. Corporations that stood and fought against the invaders such as; WNS, Arasaka, EBM, and WorldSat were given president over those that abandoned the city. Each Megacorps owned a portion of territory in the newly rebuilt city. While other corporations were forced to reside in other less stable foundations.[3]

In 2045, as victim of the Fourth Corporate War, Hong Kong was destroyed by a plague that hit the city. The Ghost World became under the control of Alt Cunningham's digital consciousness that turned the remains into society made up of AI's that resided from the old Net.[4]

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

History
Stress had built up from the signing away of Hong Kong by Britain in the early 80s, especially since China would only recognize the citizenship of pure Chinese. All the HK-born Indians, Gwailo, Malays, and Vietnamese would be countryless. Canada, the USA, and Australia received talented immigrants in the late 80s and early 90s as people fled first from the idea of CCP domination, and then from the increasing attacks of the MLC. This pressure also led to the nihilistic Zen comedy Mo lei tau which is still popular today. From the moment of birth, the MLC targeted HK for takeover. They had infiltrators sabotaging banks with smuggled bombs. Then they progressively built up a presence, using the non-unionized labor as an ideological base. The corporations tried to exterminate the MLC meetings, however to no avail. By 1995, most of Kowloon was in a state of Civil War, and the MLC army proper, using guns from PLA defectors and the Khmer Rouge, had taken over Canon. The remaining Corporations tried sealing of Hong Kong Island itself, and the citizens who were able to escape did so. Many of these refugees went to Singapore of Taiwan.

In 1997, Hong Kong was turned over to China from Britain and the MLC spilled over into the New Territories and swept through the countryside to Kowloon Bay. The various Triad mansions in the hills held out as long as possible, but were cut off from fresh supplies of ammo. In addition, the Nepalese Ghurka troops were mostly wiped out, although they massacred many of the enemy. Many of the Triads helicoptered out what they could to Lantau island.

Riots in Hong Kong started breaking out in 1999, with the MLC started battling the Triads and Corporate firms in the region. Not long after martial law was declared.

For the first time, many of the Triad leaders put aside their differences in the face of their common enemy. They turned the Wan Tuk shipyard into a miniature naval base to carry out attacks on the mainland. By this time, the HK Island forces, including those Ghurkas remaining, had demolished all the tunnels and bridges linking the island to Kowloon. With the ships they could muster, they kept the MLC limited to the peninsula. The MLC blew up or burned down many hotels, but mainly they just destroyed the power systems, and shipped off the remaining people to the New Territories and northwards to work the farms.

The corporations and Triads were capable to keeping the MLC to the mainland, but couldn't counter-invade. Even the regional forces of WNS, Arasaka, EBM, WorldSat and the Triads could only do so much against nearly a million invaders. After long negotiations, the corps and Triads joined forces and started building up a re-invasion force in 2010, led by Ghurka Col. Gaje Gurung. There were some setbacks, such as when Sun Yee On's Big Len "accidentally" captured an incoming shipment of Arasaka arms.

When Hua was assassinated in 2013, the Neo-HK army raced across Victoria Harbor and fought their way through Kowloon. They did find long-standing pockets of resistance to the MLC between themselves and the PLA, who retook Canton. After Liberation, the Neo-HK army ghurkas privatized; the Triad-Corp alliance disbanded, and everyone went back to their old system of covert trade..

The New Territories were a PLA occupied no-go zone. Lantau island was still the Triad stronghold, but with the Taipans sectioning it off among themselves. The large corporations who stayed had pretty much taken over Hong Kong Island with corporate housing on the mid-levels of the peak and offices on the Bay. Workers use the Travellator (escalators and moving walkways going down the 60 degree slope of the peak) to get from their beavertowns to corporate center. Arasaka had Chai Wan and Shau Kei Wan, WNS owned Quarry Bay and North Point, WorldSat had the Peak, Pok Fu Lam and Mount Davis, and EBM owned everything from Kennedy Town to Central. Wanchi and Happy Valley is reserved for the Neo-HK Mercs, and Causeway Bay is the business center of the island. The need for more space in Victoria had led to the reclamation of land in the Harbor, and Arasaka had their office on the new land.

After Liberation, Militech (along with the PLA) set up a regional HQ on the peninsula in Kowloon City, with company housing in Jordan Valley and Ngau Tau Kok. Their building was directly across the narrowest part of the bay between Arasaka and Militech. Returning businesses got to choose between the various wrecked districts on the peninsula. Even if they had offices on the island before the invasion, they were considered to have given up their land rights when they fled. Cheun Kong Holdings, Kadar, the various CITIC divisions, Mitsubishi and the banks were in the process of dividing up the areas from Kowloon Tong district eastwards. The west side of the peninsula includes the Walled City, and many small businesses and residential areas. This where the Triads had rebuilt, and is under their influence.

Tsimshatsui is the location of the infamous Harbor View Strip. A variety of unlicensed businesses have sprung up since Liberation, with a plethora of black-market doctors, ripperdocs, arms merchants, etc. The Public Security forces are still rather weak here, and somehow the locals usually know when crack-downs will occur. Rumor has it that there are powerful Netrunners (AI's?) who help out the Triads. No official confirmation of this rumor has been made.[3]

Neo-HK Merc Force
The Ghurkas who defended HK for years under the Brits, and then under the Corps, privatized after Liberation. Every year they recruit 200 teen-agers from their native Nepal, and train them in the fighting style that made them legend for the last 300 years. Ghurkas are small, fast, and fierce as pit-bulls. There have been many recorded cases of Ghurkas practically shredded from shrapnel and bullets still killing people in hand to hand combat, beheading them with their Kukri knives.

Currently there is one battalion (450 troops) on HK island, under the command of Col. Gurung. Another 1500 are on assignment around the world as bodyguards, in small tactical units (in Cambodia and Australia), and even a full battalion guarding the Sultan of Brunei. Ghurkas are known by their short stature, their Cybereyes that turn red in battle, and the kukis that they all wear.[3]

Climate
Hong Kong has a subtropical climate with four seasons, and weather strongly influenced by two monsoons: the north-northeast monsoon from October to March and the south-southwest monsoon from April to September. Spring – from February to April – is warm and humid, with average temperatures of around 23°C (73°F).

Chicago is a city of the NUSA state of Illinois.


Contents
1	History
1.1	Bio-Plague of 2012
1.2	Post-Collapse
2	Cytech Industries
3	Areas of Chicago
3.1	The Loop
3.2	Emerald City
3.3	New Town
3.4	Old Town
4	Notable people
5	References
History
Chicago was founded in the state of Illinois during the year 1833 as a town, and later in 1837 officially recognized as a city, by Jean Baptiste Point du Sable. It quickly became the staple of a city that was common with gang related crimes, as it quickly rose up to it during the late 1960's.

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

Bio-Plague of 2012
Chicago was a city hit hard during the Collapse, especially in the beginning. Chicago after this point was absolutely devastated, but, this amount of damage could not compare to the events of the infamous bio-plague that attacked the city. Although people thought it was a derivative of the Ebola virus, the bio-plague was actually created by the Federal Government. The bio-plague was primarily made by the research of many universities, the most deadly of research done in places like Heartland.

Heartland was a secret complex in Chicago built during WWII under the University of Chicago, originally made for the Manhattan Project. When primary research was going much faster than planned, the complex sat in disuse until the early 1960's. Just before the Vietnam War, the Heartland complex was turned into a large bio-agent and chemical research facility. It's funding came from the NSC/DIA, and literally billions were poured into it. Most of America's bio-arsenal came from there. Despite their successes in biological warfare, Heartland eventually closed. The facility was too cramped and outdated to bear another remodeling. But, the thing was, there was some things they couldn't remove without tearing up parts of the University. So they left them alone, which saved them millions in the process.

So, years later, after the facility closed much of what was being worked on and already made remained there. Samples of the worlds most deadliest diseases on the entire planet just sat there. Collecting dust. When the worst of the Collapse came, there was nothing the government could do that could change the situation. Eventually, the NSA filled the entry corridors with cement, slapped bio-hazard warnings all over the place and left off to fight a war against the government and military with the rest of the Gang of Four.

Much later during the end of 2011, reconstruction on the University of Chicago began. The reconstruction companies demolished much of the old buildings on campus, and when the complex was discovered they ignored the bio-hazard signs and started demolishing it, releasing many of those diseases that Heartland was creating. After that, all hell broke lose.

Within six months, the entire city of Chicago had been destroyed. The death toll was close to about 200,000. Although some parts of the city were still livable, most residents moved to safer parts of the country. After the plague, Chicago Port was built by the U.S. Military after they realized that without Chicago Great Lakes shipping was crippled.

Chicago still remained a wasteland; nomad heaven.

Post-Collapse
After the Collapse, most of Chicago remained empty and destroyed. It is said 90% of all of Chicago is empty. A true husk of what it once was. Algae and overgrowth ran rapid across the city, and the rust on old buildings glared proudly in the sunlight. It seemed nothing could be done about this old city. That was until Storm Technologies entered the scene.

Storm Technologies Incorporated (often abbreviated StormTech), is a technological company started by Dr. Richard Storm in the late 90's. One of the many huge and lucrative projects StormTech wanted to accomplish was the successful reclamation of Chicago. When toxicity levels in the city went down to manageable levels, StormTech was able to negotiate a lucrative deal with four of the seven Nations to start the reconstruction of Chicago.

StormTech, since 2017, has been sending groups of people into Chicago to salvage certain critical resources. They have slowly been able to reclaim and rebuild a certain parts of Chicago, like The Loop and New Town. Though there are still other parts which aren't so lucky. Nowadays, Chicago is mainly traversed by Nomad groups and gangs looking to make a living.

Cytech Industries
By the year of 2020, Chicago was eventually reconstructed as a city with a large population growth of 8,000,000, The city founded its a way out of being empty and later becoming the founder of Cytech. with the city rising from the ashes, Cytech expanded its corporation throughout the entire globe helping people with Cybernetic implants, manufacturing, holograms, infrastructure, military, and weapons.[citation needed]

Areas of Chicago
The Loop
Chicagobruh
Ruins of the downtown area of Chicago.

The Loop is the part of downtown Chicago that is encircled by the elevated train tracks that run above the streets, forming a circle around a good part of the downtown area. This is where most of StormTech's reconstruction efforts have gone. Locals consider the inside of the Loop to be the entire downtown area.

There we can find Magnificent Mile, various museums, luxurious theaters and many more other buildings of Pre-Collapse Chicago. On Michigan Avenue, you can still find the old Chicago landmarks. Tribune Tower, the Playboy Building, the Old Water Tower, and the John Hancock Center. The JHC has been the center of StormTech's reclamation efforts. It has been fully decontaminated and now the local headquarters of StormTech. The building can be seen soaring into the skyline, with the neon StormTech logo clear in front of it.

Emerald City
Underneath downtown are several underground streets which traverse almost the entire Loop area. The Emerald City gets its name from the various green florescent lights that illuminate the streets underground at all hours of the day. Emerald City is inhabited by the Morlocks, a group of people who have no other way of life. Emerald City has power because of the reconstruction effort, so enterprising Raffen ran a jumper to the lighting controls for parts of Emerald City and tapped enough juice to run the lights. An underground thoroughfare designed for pedestrians runs parallel to the Chicago River, but is separated from the rest of Emerald City by a brick wall with one or two large holes in it. Once lined with restaurants, it is now home to rat-holes, bars, and rooms that only the most desperate hide in. The pedestrian traffic is never heavy because of the filth. The smell is horrendous, especially during the summertime. This is Emerald City.

New Town
Located on North Rush Street is New Town. It was once an up-scale residential area that was then run into the ground after the Collapse, but it has been fairly cleaned up now. Single-story homes are commonplace, with lawns turned into small vegetable gardens. After work in the evening, many nomads work to prepare houses for wintertime. New Town is home to many families. Most are nomads, but some are employees of StormTech. If any disturbances break out, StormTech and the dog-soldiers show up and heaven help the perpetrators. The area is well patrolled after dark, and lightly patrolled in the daytime as well.

Old Town
Old Town is located on the tip of North Wells Street (not to be confused with North Rush Street). This two block stretch, like New Town, looks like it's name suggests. It was once a residential area and is filled with two-story brownstone apartment buildings. Mixed in are also the strangest collection of businesses to ever grace one street: this is where the nomads who make a living entertaining other nomads hang out. It is also where the majority of drinking, wilding and fighting happens in new Chicago. In some bars, you'll find extremely attractive women (who turn out to be men), transvestites, and others. Most bars (deemed Smart Bars) serve, instead of alcohol, flavored drinks high in phosphotydle chlorine, a neuro-adrenaline producer.

Osaka (大阪市) is a designated city in the Kansai region of Japan. It is the capital city of Osaka Prefecture and the largest component of the Keihanshin Metropolitan Area, the second largest metropolitan area in Japan and among the largest in the world with more than 31 million inhabitants.


Contents
1	Overview
2	History
2.1	Early History
2.2	2020
2.3	2022 - 2023
2.4	2077
3	Osaka Wards
3.1	Chuo-Ku
3.2	Fukushima-Ku
3.3	Shinsekai
3.4	Osaka-Jo
3.5	Ashiya Industrial Zone
3.6	Yodogawa Bridge
3.7	Sakai Container Market
3.8	Ikoma and Shiji Arcology Zones
4	Locations of Interest
4.1	Osaka Universal City
5	Weather
6	Economy
7	Notable people
8	Trivia
9	Gallery
10	References
Overview
Osaka is the city known for it's up-coming Rocker and Media talent. Most of the comedians popular in the modern day are from the Kansai area (Kobe, Osaka, and Kyoto). The second biggest sprawl in Japan is the source of Japan's biggest cultural conflict, the Kansai-Kanto (Tokyo sprawl) conflict. While Kyoto is the "History City" and has very refined manners, they and the Osakans are somewhat similar to westerners. Most Osakans say what's on their mind, and will haggle gleefully for the smallest amount. They despise the quiet, haughty Kanto-jin. Kansai people tend to be brash, loud, joyful people, even in this day and age.[1]

The Osaka metropolis is made up of three different cities. These cities are separated by small mountain ranges. Due to Tokyo becoming a massively overpopulated, many corporations had moved to Kansai as another financial center in Japan.

People from Osaka use their honne while Tokyo people since they commonly use tatamae and they tend to dislike the Osakans, who talk everything out, and Tokyo-jin hate bargain; it's unstylish, and very prole.[1] They do want things cheaply however, so Tokyo shops tend to be lower-priced to begin with, and discount shops get plenty of customers. The shops in Tokyo do this to avoid any type of confrontation, which is in stark contrast to Osaka.

The differences in dialect between Tokyo and Osaka is also aided by the Yakuza, to which the city has the largest population of in the entire country. The Yakuza speak Osakan slang which is rough and more direct. The men and women of Kansai speak the similar dialect whish is the opposite of Kanto. Because of Tokyo's importance most foreigners learn the Kanto dialect and have difficulty understanding Osakans.

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

History
Early History
The city of Osaka has its beginnings far in the past. The first signs of human life and habitation in the area around Osaka were buried skeletons that are dated back to the 5-6th century before Christ. During the Yayoi period, the city experienced an increase of population as the rice farming grew and the port became a greater point of trade. Because of a larger amount of bigger, richer tombs, scientists came to the conclusion that the city also was a center for politic actions. In 645, Emperor Kōtoku built the Naniwa Nagara-Toyosaki Palace, making Naniwa – the former Name of Osaka by that time that today is still used for certain districts – the new capital of Japan. Shortly after another city became capital but Naniwa kept being a center and connection for trade with near prefectures and countries.

During the 19th century, Osaka was expanded massively. The promising situation there brought in many immigrants from Korea. Since the politics were strong in the direction of industrialization and economy, the city continued to grow at fast speed and became one of the most modern cities in Japan. During the World War II, Osaka was hit several times by American air raids and suffered the destruction of wide urban areas. Since the war, the city is building itself up.

2020
By the 21st-century Osaka became the financial center of Kansai region. Most Japanese corporations that aren't headquartered here will have their secondary office in the city. By 2020, Osaka has the largest population of Yakuza in the country. The many comedy clubs turn out popular 'Rockers, as the city has become known for up and coming rocker and media talent. Osaka is also full of the skyscrapers that are not allowed in Kyoto.[1]

The Kansai International Airport, on an artificial island in the bay, is a major source of smuggling, as is the Osaka bay terminal. The guards are extra careful, but similar to the Tokyo AeroSpace Port, there is too much traffic to properly regulate everything coming in, and because of so much pressure from the Yakuza, contraband slippes by the security guards on a weekly basis.[1] On top of that much of the security that would be checking for smuggling is used to guard against angry residents who complain about the airport.

One of the best places for shopping and night life is America Village (Amerika-mura) in South Osaka. This is a big gaijin area, and most "imported" goods can be found there.[1] Tsunami Defense Systems is based out of Osaka, and is one of the largest and most successful arms manufactures in the world.[2]

2022 - 2023
Osaka expanded through the Fourth Corporate War which the city saw no loss from while cities such as Tokyo struggled. During this time Osaka was a peaceful city with lots of new cyberware and breakthroughs being made. During these years, Hanako Arasaka spent most of her time in here away from the war.[3]

2077
In 2077, the up-and-coming light heavyweight Kazuo Kano, a ronin from Osaka, remained undefeated after twenty professional fights, seventeen of which were won by technical knockout. Some accused Kano of doping, others say he had connections with the Yakuza. Wide scars had been visible near Kano's ribs for his last three fights. Local ripperdocs said that the scars definitely do not look like an appendix removal procedure. Many anticipated whether or not he became the next light heavyweight champion of the world.[4]

Osaka Wards
Chuo-Ku
The beating heart of downtown Osaka. It's relatively clean and safe, and the gangs here are powerful, but subtle. Expect plenty of salarymen working in banks, telcos and the media, thriving restaurants and moderately expensive nightclubs. Drug dealers sell knock-off designer highs to the wannabe cool crowd.[5]

Fukushima-Ku
The deadly epicenter of the crumbling inner ring of Osaka. It encompasses the old train station complex at Umeda and its warren of tunnels and back alleyways. Life here is fast, short and cheap. Drunks and hooligans roam the streets, packs of local gang kids looking for a quick fix or an easy mark.[5]

Shinsekai
The old pleasure district, filled with thundering Pachinko parlors and dim streets lined with the pale glow lights of the brothels. Rundown three-seat sake bars lurk in covered alleyways, and cheap cafes turn into garish karaoke bars at night. Pay-by-the-hour hotels are run by the owners behind bulletproof glass windows.[5]

Osaka-Jo
The castle and its surroundings. The metropolitan police central office is here, as well as the national and military police headquarters for the region. It's a fortress surrounded by swirling spotlights and buzzing AVs.[5]

Ashiya Industrial Zone
Ashiya was established in 1871 as a township in Hyōgo Prefecture. In the early 1900s, it was designated as an urban planning area. This led to the building of large single-family homes with tennis courts, swimming pools, and tea houses, etc. along the hills overlooking Osaka Bay. In 1945, the City of Ashiya prohibited the operation of pachinko parlors, gambling and entertainment facilities as well as small factories. Those laws still stand and there is no other municipal government with similar regulations in Japan.[5]

Yodogawa Bridge
A bridge reclaimed from the expressway by the homeless and the dangerous. It's a limited space outside the law but with its own rules.[5]

Sakai Container Market
This is where shipping containers go to die, stacked up between rickety scaffolding and filled with everything you could think of for sale, from single screws to consignments of millions.[5]

Ikoma and Shiji Arcology Zones
These exclusive and well-protected districts are where tens of thousands of employees of the huge Japanese megacorporations, live, work, and play. Each archaeology is a totally self-contained city. Arasaka patrols can be seen here. The local Yakuza families also reside in this area.[5]

Locations of Interest
Osaka Universal City
On Monday, 29 October 2020, Universal City Japan greeted its 100 millionth visitor since its opening in 2001. The crime in Osaka is very low and security in Universal City is not as tights as Disney City, security drones can be spotted around the park however the entrance is very light. It's a very popular destination for Americans to visit while in the city. There's an event that can be found for a limited time of Johnny Silverhand concert in holographic form.

Weather
Osaka is located in the humid subtropical climate zone (Köppen Cfa), with four distinct seasons. Its winters are generally mild, with January being the coldest month having an average high of 9.3 °C (49 °F). The city rarely sees snowfall during the winter. Spring in Osaka starts off mild, but ends up being hot and humid. It also tends to be Osaka's wettest season, with the tsuyu (梅雨 tsuyu, "plum rain") — the rainy season — occurring between early June (average:Jun.7) to late July (average:Jul.21). Summers are very hot and humid. In August, the hottest month, the average daily high temperature reaches 33.5 °C (92 °F), while average nighttime low temperatures typically hover around 25.5 °C (78 °F). Fall in Osaka sees a cooling trend, with the early part of the season resembling summer while the latter part of fall resembles winter. Precipitation is abundant, with winter being the driest season, while monthly rainfall peaks in June with the "tsuyu" rainy season, which typically ends in mid to late July. From late July through the end of August, summer's heat and humidity peaks, and rainfall decreases some. Osaka experiences a second rainy period in September and early October, when tropical weather systems, including tsunamis, coming from the south or southwest are possible.

Economy
Japanese public masked
Osaka 2020

The gross city product of Osaka in fiscal year 2045 was ¥31.3 trillion, an increase of 1.2% over the previous year. The figure accounts for about 55% of the total output in the Osaka Prefecture and 26.5% in the Kinki region. In 2045, commerce, services, and manufacturing have been the three major industries, accounting for 30%, 26%, and 11% of the total, respectively. The per capita income in the city was about ¥5.3 million, 10% higher than that of the Osaka Prefecture. Osaka ranks 14th among the world's leading cities and plays an important role in the global economy.

Notable people
Sho (Iwasao Koremichi's bodyguard)
Metane Tekara (Instructor, currently based in Benkei Island Training Facility)
Katsuo Iwashima (second in command of the Arasaka Family Compound, currently based in Tokyo)
Osamu Yoshida (Solo)
Himari Kamimura (Solo and Ex-Yakuza Slave, currently based in Tokyo)
Hitome Kanzaki (Rocketgirl, wife of Hichigo Kanzaki and mother of Shin Kanzaki, currently based in Night City, United States of America)
Kokuryu (Black Dragon) (Techie)
Akari Ogawa (Netrunner, currently based in Night City, United States of America)
Kenichi Zaburo (Michiko Arasaka's bodyguard, currently based in Night City, United States of America)
Trivia
Osaka's nickname -- Tenka no Daidokoro (the nation's kitchen) -- originally referred to its Edo Period status as Japan's rice-trade hub. Nowadays, it refers to its reputation as a gourmand's paradise. And okonomiyaki is arguably Osaka's most famous dish. Somewhere between an omelette and a pancake, okonomiyaki is customized with a choice of meat, seafood or noodles to create an infinitely variable classic. Other Osaka staples include kitsune udon (thick noodle soup blanketed by fried tofu) and hakozushi (sushi pressed flat in a bamboo box; an edible tapestry). Osaka's quintessential street snack? Takoyaki -- ball-shaped octopus fritters. More adventurous diners may try tessa -- sashimi made from poisonous fugu, or globefish. Certified chefs are trained to leave just enough poison to numb the lips, not stop the heart.
The working-class district of Tsuruhashi is home to Osaka's Korea Town. The area clustered underneath the train tracks forms a labyrinth of Korean food and goods vendors. Find all things Korean here, from hats plastered with Korean pop idols to pungent vats of kimchi or Korean wedding gowns. Locals instantly know they've arrived in Tsuruhashi when the train door opens and in floods the glorious smell of yakiniku, Japanese-style Korean barbecue.
Osaka's reputation as a mercantile city goes even further back than its reign as the nation's kitchen; the port city has been Japan's commercial center for over a thousand years. So, what better way to Celebrate Osaka's economic prowess than by hitting its many excellent shopping districts. DenDen Town (also known as Nipponbashi) is electronics heaven, while luxury-brand boutiques can be found in Shinsaibashi and Midosuji. Amerikamura is a trendy spot for hip vintage wear, and massive shopping centers can be found in Tennoji and Namba. All fun and much less crowded than their Tokyo equivalents.
Osakans are renowned for being open, brash and, above all, funny (Osaka produces a good chunk of Japan's comedians). But they have a nutty streak, too. In 1985, Hanshin Tiger baseball fans tossed a KFC Colonel Sanders statue into the Dotonbori River, partly to celebrate winning the Japan Series and partly because they thought the statue resembled American Randy Bass, their star player. When the Tigers suffered a long losing streak following the drowning of the Colonel, the Legend of the Curse of the Colonel was born. Tigers fans took the curse so seriously, numerous attempts were made to recover the statue by divers and through dredging the river, before finally succeeding in 2009.

Seoul, the capital of United Korea, is a huge metropolis where modern skyscrapers, high-tech subways and pop culture meet Buddhist temples, palaces and street markets. Notable attractions include futuristic Dongdaemun Design Plaza, a convention hall with curving architecture and a rooftop park; Gyeongbokgung Palace, which once had more than 7,000 rooms; and Jogyesa Temple, site of ancient locust and pine trees.


Contents
1	History
2	Politics
3	Transport
4	Subways
5	Freeways
6	Notable people
History
Seoul is on the western side of the peninsula, near the 38th Parallel. This put it at the center of the two Korean Wars, but it's been focal point for strife its entire history.

It was a humble village until I SongGye, the founder of Rissi-Chonson, built his capital city here. The first invasion was by the 16th-century Japanese warlord, Toyotomi Hideyoshi, who burnt the city down. During the 19th-century, until 1910, Korea was center to the struggle between the Chinese Qing Dynasty, Czarist Russia, and Imperial Japan. And Seoul was the center of that maelstorm, but the Yangban just tried to make profit out of the situation. In 1910, Korea became a colony of Japan, and the Governor's House was built in Seoul. In 1945, after the Japanese surrrender, Korea became the center of the Communist Chinese/Soviet/US battle, and Seoul was burned down twice during the First Korean War. But they rebuilt it again.

Afterwards, as the capital of Hanguk, it made a tremendous leap into the corporate consciousness. Of course, it got trashed right away during the Second War, and General I based his command in Busan. Being within 100 km of the former Hanguk/Chonson border made it the prime target of every Choson Soldier. Now they are rebuilding-again. Some blocks are untouched (but sooty) buildings from before the war, while the next block may be flattened rubble, or one of the brand-new towers.

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

Politics
As the largest city by far in Korea, as the capital, Seoul is now the center of struggle between old and new powers, both on the surface and underground. Choson (and other) terrorists take advantage of the lack of reconstruction planning, and strike from various ruins. The police cannot find terrorist in the confusion, and the people are unsettled. This struggle is not only a struggle for power, but one for culture as well. Korea hasn't really changed in the last 500 years; even the Communist North still Yangban rule. Koreans are getting frustrated at the difference between their old, restrictive system, and the perceived freedoms of others. The Cyberpunk movement is being felt by the disaffected, and talented but lower-caste, youth. Caution is advised; if you are seen with the Yangbans, you may be attacked later by C'punks. If you are seen with 'punks, you might be arrested for "aiding anti-state elements."

Transport
Being a city of 14 milion, Seoul has all the expected transportation problems. The entire traffic web of Korea center on Seoul. Ironically, the recent destruction has given the civil engineers ample room to make improvements, and the Korean traffic system is one of the fastest and safest in the world, 2nd to Tokyo.

Subways
Korean subways are incredibly safe. The security has been strengthened since the Sungan assassination. There had been violence before, but that was the case that got measures installed (to protect the corps and politicians; they don't care so much about you or I, or the Korean punk).

Every train is guarded by two or more well-armed cops, and the stations have a squad on hand at all times. If you make trouble in the subways, the cops will take any means necessary to keep the public peace. "Trouble" can be awfully loosely defined, though. If you are nervous around police, DON'T take the trains.

Freeways
The entire Korean highway system is centered on Seoul. It's an old habit; 400 years ago, they said "Even a footpath between rice fields points to Seoul." In the outlying areas, especially in the North, roads may still be unpassable. Also, sometimes you'll find roads that are incredibly straight over several klicks. These were designed as emergency runaways during the Haguk/Choson Cold War.


Shanghai, is one of China's major ports and for cyberpunks it's the most popular entry point. The sprawl covers 8000 sq km, with over 25 million friendly inhabitants friendly. Very reminiscent of Osaka/Kobe. Shanghai's core has one of the highest population densities in the world, surpassed by Tokyo and Bombay.

Overview
Shanghai is China's main manufacturing center and has been so for 150 years. The city has foreign corps, most of them are Asian (Japanese, Singaporean, & Malaysian). Baoshan Steel from Japan is the largest foreign company, employing 100,000 Chinese, and contributes greatly to the lack of air quality. Other megacorps which have their main office or regional office in Shanghai include Tiger Medicines Inc, Princess Group Films, and World News Service.

The city is loud, as most of the vehicles are motorized hybrids built from scavenged parts. Vehicles that use gasoline, unlike most of the world. China hadn't gotten the license to produce CHOOH2, the country uses it's oil reserves to produce gasoline for internal purposes. As early as 4 am, the city is bustling. From 4 am till 2 am the next day, the parks have people doing martial arts (in groups up to 600 people at a time), and there are workers, hookers, street people, and hawkers making a living.

In Shanghai, the action keeps going to late-night unlike in most other Chinese cities (e.g. Singapore) which are usually dead by 10 pm. There is a city net, but Shanghai doesn't have a public uplink. Usually only important people have a corporate line or private link. Many prefer using either phones or fax. It's believed doing so keeps the Triads and FACS an electronic step away.

For the nightlife and to meet foreigners, you need to go downtown to the Bund (Zhongshan Donglu). In the mornings its martial arts. During the day, the info banks and trading houses are open (e.g. CITIC, Shanghai Bank, and Kadar). At night, a medium-class "strip" appears, with prostitution, mild drugs, street performers, contraband dealers, and music bands.

At the Docks, is where commercial and military shipbuilding is done. In the blocks surrounding the docks are miscellaneous import/export companies that also do smuggling. At night, some of then turn into fight arenas (ranging from cockfights to full-contact martial arts), gambling casinos, brothels, and weapons markets. The locations change and every one of them is at the low class end. Fixers come here to check out new talent. Many have made it big in the docks and many more died a violent death (either in a police raid, a martial arts match, or a deal gone bad).

High-class business types have clubs in the basement levels of western-style hotels downtown by the Bund government offices. Which cater to techs, businessmen, and high-price call-girls and solos. Ties are required at the Yangtse Hotel, Sheraton Shanghai, or Murayama Mansions. The rest of Shanghai consists of factories, worker's housing, and markets. Similar to arcologies and suburbia. From here you can take a train or plane to an internal city (e.g. Beijing, Nanjing, or Xi'an) or a boat to Japan, Hong Kong, or Beijing.

The Arasaka Corporation (Japanese: アラサカ社 or 荒坂社), is a world-wide megacorporation dealing in corporate security, banking, and manufacturing.[1] It is one of the most influential megacorporations in the world.[4] The company is also the largest distributor of Japanese-made merchandise throughout the American, European, and Asian markets. Arasaka-branded weapons and military vehicles are among the most sought after by police and security firms.[5] Over the years, it has developed a dark reputation as a corporation that is to be feared and one which covers its tracks using assassins, an army of lawyers, as well as an alleged connection to the Yakuza.[6][7]

The Arasaka Corporation maintains the largest and most powerful armed forces of any corporation in the world, with their guards renowned worldwide and feared by many. Most firms will look to licensing from Arasaka corporate security guards, couriers, or mercenaries to protect their assets. However, Arasaka assets take priority if they are at risk and the troops themselves are loyal to death to the Japanese conglomerate.[2]

Arasaka has made a habit of buying up other companies worldwide, and bleeding out the competition of other Japanese corporations. They also give a heavy amount of support to Japanese communities all over the globe, despite their business practices and overall history being considered unethical.[6]


Contents
1	History
1.1	1910s - 1950s
1.2	1960 - 1997
1.3	1997 - 2020
1.4	Fourth Corporate War (2022-2025)
1.5	2040 - 2076
1.6	2077
2	Main Intent & Services
2.1	Security Division
2.2	Police Services
2.3	Weapons Manufacturing
2.4	Cyberware Manufacturing
2.5	General Manufacturing
2.6	Banking
3	Uniforms & Personnel
3.1	Executives
3.2	Corporate Security Guards
3.3	Corporate Soldiers
3.4	Bodyguards
3.5	Special Agents
3.6	Service Employees
4	Market Strategy
4.1	Arasaka Security
4.2	Arasaka Bank
4.3	Arasaka Manufactures
5	Resources & Capital
5.1	Corporate Value
5.2	Action Taken
5.3	Material Resources
5.4	Human Resources
5.5	Black Resources
5.6	Subsidiary Companies
6	Regional Offices
6.1	Personnel
6.2	Security
7	Public Relations
7.1	Enemies and Allies
7.2	Controversies
8	Notable Employees
9	Database Entry (2077)
10	Key Facilitates
11	Products
11.1	2020
11.2	2045
11.3	2077
12	Behind the scenes
13	Trivia
14	Gallery
15	References
History
GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

1910s - 1950s
Arasaka Factory, 1920
Arasaka factory, Japan, 1920

The Arasaka Corporation was founded in 1915, by Sasai Arasaka in Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan. The company originally was focused on manufacturing and took full advantage of World War II to forward their wealth and power by supplying the Imperial Army. However Sasai foresaw the defeat of Japan and worked to ensure his company and fortune would survive the war by spreading his wealth across the globe, out of the reach of the post-war leadership. Soon enough the Japanese surrendered and the country was in ruin, with most cities destroyed by the constant bombings (with the exception of Kyoto).[4]

On August 15th, 1945, the Emperor broadcast the edict of surrender and renounced his divinity. Saburo Arasaka, a former lieutenant in the Imperial Japanese Navy and son of Sasai, was thunderstruck. He was on the verge of seppuku in the compound's cherry tree grove of the hospital when he had a moment of epiphany and a vision. Right at that moment, Saburo saw the wisdom of his father's actions. As family scion, that fortune would soon be his to control, a fortune that, if wielded correctly, would permit a clever man to push Japan back towards a position of power from which it could dominate the world politically and economically. The children of Amaterasu would prevail, if not under the Emperor, then under another deity: commerce. Saburo drew the half inch of dagger that had penetrated his abdominal muscles before the vision had stayed his hand and returned to the household. That same night, he began to study politics, economics, and history, which continued until his father's death.

Although Japan's economy and industry were in ruins, Saburo studied all matters of business, economics, and politics while attending Todai. This was to ensure he had the skills necessary to accomplish his goals. Sasai had capitalized on wartime industry, but against Saburo's impassioned urging, he had made sure that the bulk of the Arasaka fortune was covertly protected in concealed overseas assets and accounts.[6]

1960 - 1997
Arasaka board1960
Saburo Arasaka and board members, in Arasaka Tokyo office, Japan, 1960

In 1960 Sasai Arasaka died and the 41 year old Saburo stepped into his late father's shoes as the head of the Arasaka Corporation. At the time Arasaka was still a relatively small company, having just reestablished itself in international commerce. Before his death, Saburo's father had been slowly retrieving the capital and resources kept secret during the war and after he died, Saburo himself continued the task.

In 1970 Saburo created the Arasaka Security division of the Arasaka Corporation. The new division specialized in high quality personal and corporate manpower, electronic, and computer security and protection.[6] Slowly, over 25 years, Arasaka Security developed a sterling reputation as the most potent company of its type in the world. In 1990, Arasaka emerged on the global 500 list and by the mid 1990s, Arasaka guards were employed by thousands of powerful individuals and corporations around the world and Arasaka intrusion countermeasures and computer security experts were retained by many others. It wasn't long thereafter that the Security division was one of Arasaka's three most powerful holdings, equaled only by the Arasaka Bank and Arasaka Manufacturing.

Saburo's dedication to his study enabled him to foresee the world market collapse of 1994 and the US collapse of 1996. Saburo was able to take the appropriate steps, and through his shrewd manipulation and investments, make the Arasaka Corporation one of the few commercial institutions to profit from the crash. Arasaka was big before the crash, but in the period afterwards it assumed gigantic stature, becoming one of the largest Megacorporations in the world, now ranking at number two on the global 500 list.

At some point in the 1990s, the Arasaka European Group constructed their European headquarters in Paris, France.[4]

In 1997 Arasaka Security moved into paramilitary contracting and began training one of the world's first corporate armies at the corporation's guard and agent schooling facility in the forbidden northern wastes of Hokkaido. An age of ruthlessness followed, with Arasaka destroying or absorbing as much of its competition as it could and buying out any non-competitive companies that Saburo thought would make a good asset.

Arasaka's control over the government of Japan was becoming problematic in the late 1990s. Saburo was close to having complete control with 60% of Japan's National Diet being Arasaka-bought politicians. However, due to growing fear amongst other Japanese corporations about Arasaka's government takeover attempt, a group was formed by large and small Japanese corporations that united under FACS (Far Asian Co-prosperity Sphere) banner. This countered Saburo's control of the government and many politicians were arrested. FACS would continue to undermine Arasaka's plans in the coming decades.[4]

1997 - 2020
Arasaka factory2000
Arasaka factory, 2000

The years from 1997 to 2020, however, had seen the Arasaka Corporation continue to diversify and strengthen. Its major functional arms were still the Arasaka Bank, Manufacturing, and Security groups. Although the corporation was astoundingly wealthy and powerful, and Saburo one of the wealthiest men in the world, he had not forgotten his original goal. During this time Saburo stepped down as CEO and, in his place, his son Kei Arasaka became the nominal head of the Arasaka Corporation. However all major decisions and policies were still subject to Saburo's discretion. Saburo had groomed his son for eventual complete control, and the realization of his personal goals.[6]

During the early 2000s, Arasaka contracted major bodyguard services to Slovakia. Though while not having much political power as other Japanese or Korean corporations within the nation, Arasaka still maintained subsidiaries producing articles for the European market.[8]

In 2008, the Taiwanese Government hired Arasaka to plan out their defense force in fear of a Chinese invasion. Taiwan managed anti-ship, plane, and missile defenses on the Kinmen and Matsu islands, and Hsinchu, Chanhua, as well as Anping. These islands all contained contracted Arasaka troops for constant hourly monitoring of the Communist and Chinese sponsored Militech.[9]

In 2010, Arasaka alongside WNS, EBM, and WorldSat, as well as Triad forces, repelled the invasion of the MLC on Hong Kong. After three years, they were successful in repelling the invasion of Hong Kong, and all four corporations took control of sections of the city.[4] Arasaka secured Chai Wan and Shau Kei Wan, with corporate housing on the mid-levels of the peak and offices on the Bay. They also had their new regional office constructed on the new set of land.[9]

In 2013, Arasaka America faced major terrorist attacks on its headquarters in Night City. A rockerboy named Johnny Silverhand led a riot at the base of the Tower and managed to murder multiple Arasaka employees as well as the CEO of the American branch, Toshiro.

During this time, Arasaka partnered with Sony Corporation in co-producing the Medusa 2000. The weapon gave the user direct interface to a powerful multi-medium zoom lens with image enhancers, telescopic, macro-zoom abilities, anti-dazzle, UV, and thermograph sensors. Any data filmed was stored into data chips or directly into a neural processor storage bank.

In 2020, Arasaka secured a political seat in the government of Portugal. The controlling cooperative alliance had broken in two factions. The cooperative party (The Consensual Progress Party) had two candidates to the presidency, each of them supported by three of the controlling corps (Iberian Agrolndustrial, Amazonian Security, and WNS against Merchant, Arasaka, and Oliveira-Leisure). Tensions between Amazonian Security and Arasaka had risen in attempts to restore harmony and a stable economic growth to the country.[8]

Sometime during 2020, an Arasaka Cargo Submarine and its crew including Captain Hyung Mitsumoto sunk in the North Pacific. This led to the acquisition of IDA (International Defense Alliance), an independent organization that was then put under the Arasaka subsidiary, Sato Commercial Shipping. A covert IDA team was dispatched to the Bonin trench to bring the sub to the surface.

Fourth Corporate War (2022-2025)
Main article: Fourth Corporate War
In 2021 an oceanic corporation known as Internationale Handelsmarine Aktiengesellschaft, IHAG, announced bankruptcy. Both CINO and OTEC were looking to acquire the stock in the corporation, but each company was too closely matched in buying power for either to get an edge. So they decided to whittle down their opponent's resources and sabotage their attempts at stock acquisition.[5] However, this proved ineffective by itself so the Aquacorp of CINO hired on Arasaka, while OTEC hired Militech. Being the two largest paramilitary corporations in the world, both Arasaka and Militech had been rivaling for many years on different contractors. Arasaka saw this as an opportunity to then whittle Militech's resources.

During this time Saburo Arasaka soon came to consider Donald Lundee a real threat, someone who threatened his goal for the Arasaka Corporation. In 2022, Kei Arasaka was responsible for a great deal of the daily operations and important decisions during the IHAG mess. While he viewed the fight like any other business operation, and would never take it personally, in aligntment with Arasaka tradition he intended to stop at nothing to make sure his side was victorious and would never step down from a direct offense to Arasaka. Kei also had full control over his father's corporation as, during this time, Saburo was in seclusion for security reasons for the duration of the conflict. However, he knew the war wasn't going to end well and began to work directly with General Ubo Tanaka, readying himself to sacrifice major assets in order to win. The only thing left was his contingency plans that he hoped would save the zaibatsu if the worst occurred and Arasaka lost.

The end of the war for the company saw the death of Kei Arasaka and the destruction of the Arasaka tower in Night City in 2023, as it was destroyed with a mini Nuke by a Militech operative team. President Kress blamed the Night City bombing on Arasaka, despite the fault lying with Militech, and further demonized Arasaka for her own interests. Arasaka's charters to operate in the United States were immediately revoked, its members and board declared terrorists, and its assets either seized or driven off-shore. Arasaka's participation in the Fourth Corporate War almost led to Japanese government breakdown. By repudiating Arasaka after the official end of the war in 2025, Japan's national face was saved and Arasaka was reduced to a Japan-only corporation for the next decade.[2]

2040 - 2076
ArasakaWaterfront Database CP2077
Arasaka Waterfront, 2076

Even after the defeat in the Fourth Corporate War, Arasaka maintained one of the largest armed forces of any other corporation. The corporation had most of its operations limited to Japan and heavily reduced. Despite the situation, Arasaka still managed to hold onto a majority of their assets.[2] By 2040, the Arasaka Corporation rebuilt itself and was slowly gaining back much of its prior strength. The corporation was also attempting to amend its relations with the NUSA and being welcomed back to continue its operations. Arasaka still had small operations in select parts of the NUSA but nothing official. Arasaka still covertly licensed their troops to other firms worldwide but they would have to use the uniforms of their new "employers." The Arasaka Corporation's goal had also not changed: they wanted to return to the political and economic height it held in the 2020s.[2]

Arasaka may have been under the nominal control of Saburo Arasaka, but for many years there stood factions vying for dominance. As of 2045, there were three major factions struggling to come out on top. Each one hoping their family patriarch, Saburo, would eventually hand the reigns over to them. The Arasaka Factions of 2045 were as follows:

The Kiji 雉 (Green Pheasant) Faction: As led by Hanako, this faction was essentially a continuation of the mainline. But as Hanako was something of a recluse, she was more interested in her Netrunning experiments than in gathering power. This group, with Hanako at its center, consists primarily of conservative technocrats who wish to follow the course set by Saburo Arasaka himself. In his daughter, Hanako, they see a guiding force to maintain the old order and stability within the corporation.
The Taka 鷹 (Hawk) Faction: As led by Yorinobu, Saburo's second son. This faction, headed by Yorinobu, often prefers to take the most direct and uncompromising solutions. Both stubborn and temperamental, he resembles Saburo which has given him wide support among the more militant-minded Arasaka Corp., elite. However, his more pro-Western inclinations and ideas that are innovative as they are controversial have weakened his support for the Board's loyal traditionalists.
Hato 鳩 (Dove) Faction: Centered on Michiko Arasaka, Kei's only daughter and Saburo's granddaughter. This was the liberal wing of the corporation unified those who sought deeper reforms. However while out of the three Hato held little influence, they still enjoyed the growing support of popularity among some politicians and media personalities.
Several smaller factions also existed within the corporation but they did not hold as much power as the main three: Kiji, Taka, and Hato. Arasaka's world influence was still present as it remained at the top after the rebuild era.

In 2067, the Emperor of Japan was saved after an attempted assassination by an Arasaka bodyguard who intercepted the assassin's bullet.

In 2068, Arasaka collaborated with the Yaiba Corporation and designed the fastest and most expensive motorcycle on the market, the Kusanagi CT-3X. The Kusanagi became a favorite among gangers, bosozokus, and celebrities around the world.[3]

During the Unification War, 2069 to 2070, between the NUSA and the Free States, Arasaka supported Night City, regaining its favor and eventually returning to the city in 2070 at the request of then-city councilman Lucius Rhyne.[5] Arasaka arrived in Coronado Bay with their super carrier as the NUSA troops were ready for the invasion of the city, the troops were ordered to retreat in fear of the already unstable NUSA collapsing due to another conflict. The Arasaka Corporation was once again welcomed into the Americas as they rebuilt their American headquarters in Night City.[10] Arasaka now after reclaiming much of its former strength, had fully reclaimed its position in Night City.[11] They started with establishing the Arasaka Waterfront, bringing down its competition in the area. Arasaka razed the crumbling structures of old Watson, a vast walled complex defended by guards and automated turrets. These became container warehouses, hangars, and autonomous assembly lines. The goal was to get a successful port and supply chain for the city and the Free States.

In the early 2070s, a bioengineer named Anders Hellman was appointed the director of the Relic Project. Using the Soulkiller's source code, Hellman created a new piece of technology that was capable of communicating with personality constructs. Because of his continued work, loyalty, and personal relationship with the Arasaka family - Saburo considered offering him a position of Director of the Kyoto Institute of Technology.

In 2071, the Arasaka security forces prevented mass riots across San Francisco, managing to quell the conflict.

In 2074, in Brazil, an Arasaka investigation destroyed a terrorist cell that was taking place in Rio de Janeiro. The Arasaka soldiers executed all terrorists responsible and ended a series of attacks the country had been facing.

In 2076, the Arasaka counterintelligence department managed to secure a corporate summit in Jakarta, Indonesia, stopping 45 plots to attack and sabotage the summit.[3]

2077
Yorinobu PC 2077p1
Yorinobu Arasaka Press Conference, 2077

In 2077, a Militech operatives team discovered that Arasaka had been hiding the fact that they had a mass driver on the Moon. The ESA was the only organization allowed to operate and own mass drivers, an edge they wanted to keep, because of this Militech tipped off the ESA council in order to effect Arasaka. The ESA called an intimidate meeting to reexamine Arasaka's license in space affairs. The ones responsible for the mistake were Arasaka America, of the Night City operatives branch, many employees feared Japan's response. In an attempt to cover their tracks Arthur Jenkins ordered to a flatline of members of the council, a move that, among other decisions, cost him his life.[3]

In Japan, Arasaka engineers successfully conducted ballistic missile tests on Yakushima. The new electromagnetic missile was to combat the growing terrorist threat as well as other rogue elements that threaten public safety. Rumors also circulated of Arasaka developing new line of reflex boosters that would last twice as long as the current models on the market. The corporation was also looking for willing participates for the experiments.

During a shareholders report, it was announced by the board of directors that Lasombra, Arasaka HQ in Mexico, increased shareholder voting power by 1.5%.

In Night City, Arasaka was voted the number #1 Megacorporation to work for. The Japanese zaibatsu juggernaut would give employees the latest in cyberware technology with a loyalty obligation of only 20 years.[12]

In Tokyo, Arasaka introduced a revolutionary new line of premium biochip called the Relic, which was advertised as a means for buyers to preserve a copy of their personalities for future generations to interact with. It was first reported by Nippon Daily, not long after Arasaka officially confirmed it. The revolutionary new tech was said to be very expensive and would be a service exculsively the 1% who could be able to afford it, this meant that the product would not be made available to the general public within the foreseeable future.

Arasaka had announced it had signed a cooperation agreement with Night City University, offering its professors and students Arasaka Ozukumi Sx cognitive implants on loan at a 20% discounted rate.

Saburo continued serving as Arasaka's CEO up until his death, when he was murdered by Yorinobu. The death of the CEO was covered up and attributed to poisoning, while Yorinobu consolidated the corporation's support and became the new CEO. Some within the corporation viewed Yorinobu's sudden ascension with suspicion, and considered backing Hanako.[3]

Yorinobu made controversial decisions within the company such as selling assets of facilities in Fukuoka and Kitakyushu. The Arasaka Corporation's stock jump up by 3% after the decision was made. Arasaka sponsored the Dashi Parade a classical Japanese festival within Japantown, Night City. The parade would also became the festival in remembering of Saburo Arasaka, one that Hanako would attend prior to the news of her fathers passing. During this time tensions were rising between Arasaka and Militech, corporate sabotage could be what was possibly leading to another Corporate War between the two corporations.

After successfully rescuing his sister Hanako, Yorinobu called an emergency meeting the Arasaka supervisor board in Night City. Top executives from Tokyo, as well as branch directors from Paris, Shanghai, and Kinshasa all to meet in the Arasaka Tower of the American Division headquarters. Yorinobu had a plan for a military coup that would give him and those loyal to his faction complete control of Arasaka Corporation for his plan of sabotage.

If V took Hanako's offer in Nocturne Op55N1:

Hanako Arasaka enlisted the help of a local mercenary named V, the Relic project director Anders Hellman, her personal bodyguard Sandayu Oda and Saburo's ex-personal bodyguard Goro Takemura to confront the board of directors of the Arasaka with the evidence of Saburo's murder. Upon arrival in the Arasaka America HQ, Hanako and V visited Mikoshi to speak with Saburo, who's mind was copied as an engram. After a brief discussion of the current events Hanako brought the engram of her father to where they met with Oda and Takemura before seeing the board. Hanako introduced V as a witness to Saburo's murder, and revealed the truth of Yorinobu. The board as well as Michiko Arasaka were in disbelief, until Hanako showed the engram of Saburo, who scolded the board of their cowardice.[3]
Before any decisions were made, Yorinobu's plan of a military coup went into effect his loyal faction soldiers broke into the room, murdering the board members except Hanako and Michiko. Around the world the military coup was also in effect, cities of Kyoto, Dubai, Paris, and various other locations fought to secure Arasaka under the Taka Faction. Hanako was prepared to take back the Tower in Night City with her loyal soldiers led by Takemura, who were eventually successful and took control of the situation in Night City. Yorinobu and his forces lost as he accepted defeat, he was convinced by his sister to restore honor to the Arasaka family by allowing their father to take over his body using the Relic technology.[3]
After the attempted coup, Saburo Arasaka reappeared to the world in the body of of his son, Yorinobu, and promised to fix the problems that his son started. The Arasaka Corporation made peace with Militech, as the two worked towards a lasting peace. The Arasaka also signed deals with President Meyers to remain as allies.
The Arasaka Relic project proved a success despite protest across the world, the corporation remained a major power. However many people were not happy on the manner of Saburo's return. Protesters against the Relic program included many people as well as religious organizations who saw the project as inhuman and disturbing. Many people also believed this would lead to the rich elite living forever as the rest would suffer.[3]
If V asked Panam for help in Nocturne Op55N1:

Yorinobu was successful in taking control of Arasaka through a military coup, the corporation was now under control of the Taka Faction. However during this time the Aldecaldos nomad clan, led by Panam Palmer and Saul Bright, invaded the Arasaka Tower in Night City. The assault led to the complete destruction of Mikoshi, resulting in the Relic project folding as the corporation reported major loses in the funding of the project. Before returning to the Arasaka Tower in Tokyo, Yorinobu confirmed to the public that his sister, Hanako Arasaka, was among one of the victims of this assault and that he would find those responsible. The Arasaka Corporation lost much political power as well as major assets as they tried to reorganize after the coup. The Arasaka Corporation's future remained unclear.[3]
If V let's Johnny go with Rogue or does the suicide run in Nocturne Op55N1:

Yorinobu was successful in taking control of Arasaka through a military coup, the corporation was now under control of the Taka Faction. However during this time an assault was conducted on Arasaka Tower in Night City. The assault led to the complete destruction of Mikoshi through this the Relic project folded as the corporation reported major loses in the funding of the project. Yorinobu returned Arasaka Tower in Tokyo, as Hanako Arasaka made a statement that she stepping back from the public eye taking time to grieve the loss of her father. Much political power was lost as the Arasaka Corporation lost major assets as they tried to reorganize after the coup. The Arasaka Corporation's future had remained unclear.
Main Intent & Services
Security Division
The Arasaka Corporation is a highly diversified corporation, however only one of its branches is much more ubiquitously visible than the others, especially in the EEC and NUSA: the Arasaka Security division. Arasaka is famous for their black clad guards that are employed by many of the powerful people and corporations in the world. Even if the guards are not present, the Arasaka logo appears prominently on many weapons, computers, and other security equipment routinely used by the security teams of many organizations and companies. Arasaka is the world's most obvious force for private and corporate security contracting. It is common knowledge that the Arasaka Security is the best way to protect a person's assets or themselves, Arasaka contracts and rents its security services in various ways.[13]

Arasaka is not the only company that offers this service, but it is the largest and most reputable. Arasaka's security personnel are known to be the best trained and best equipped then any other service. They are not cheap, but the investment is generally considered profitable. Arasaka can provide groups of one to one thousand agents per contract. The service is twenty-four hours a day, and the guards can be accommodated, at the discretion of the contractors, privately, on site or in the local offices of Arasaka. All Arasaka guards are fully trained in security procedures, equipment handling, and urban combat, armed and unarmed, at close range. Depending on how much the contractor wants to pay for each guard, there are various levels of weaponry and specialization available, from unarmed counter guards to fully armed and armored rapid response combat gear.

There are a number of options available on any manpower contracting at varying expense. The client can order all-male or all-female guards, or a specific ratio of sexes, or as Arasaka contracts its services around the world, clients can order guards fluent in Japanese, German, Spanish, English, Italian, Chinese (Mandarin and Cantonese), Korean and French. All guards are required to be conversant, although not fluent, in Japanese and English. Bilingual guards are also always available. Guards specializing in heavy weapons, unarmed combat, and specialized terrain are available for contracts that call for varied situations. Different levels of security force concealment can also be ordered, from completely discreet and invisible to ostentatiously threatening. If the security forces are visible, clients can choose to have them be unidentified or clearly identified as Arasaka Troops. Only in rare circumstances, such as when a little misdirection is called for, will Arasaka troops actually wear the uniform or logo of the contracting corporation, or a third party. Arasaka also contracts out its paramilitary forces for one shot operations, such as extractions. This type of contract can be extremely costly, due to the loss of expensive men and equipment.

Another type of protection that Arasaka provides is personal security in the form of bodyguards, escort teams and household security. The service is expensive, but popular among celebrities, wealthy businessmen, and the politicians of several nations who no longer trust their respective Secret Service agencies. As with corporate guards, there are several options, including gender, number of guards, dress style, age, visibility, race, nationality, level of armament, training and services performed. It is considered very chic in some circles to have one good looking, full-time Arasaka bodyguard of the opposite gender on one's payroll. These single bodyguards usually work solo or manage other non-Arasaka personnel retained by their client.

In addition to supplying trained men and women to corporations, groups and individuals, Arasaka also leases and sells the security equipment that it manufactures. Typical items include cameras, perimeter detection and surveillance equipment, computerized security offices and networks, fire extinguishing systems, security turrets, robotic personnel, and computerized personnel access systems. Also available are more exotic items such as weapons and bomb detecting equipment, booby traps and other "lethal deterrence systems". Computer security is another product available from Arasaka. Proprietary Arasaka ICE systems, white and black, are also available for installation into client's computer systems. Arasaka will train non-Arasaka personnel in the operations of all of the security systems that it sells, but it's more typical for clients to buy a package that includes both the equipment and Arasaka-trained people to run it.

The last type of personnel that Arasaka contracts out are security consultants. If someone wants good security run by inhouse people, but lacks the expertise, an option to hire a team of Arasaka Security Consultants to inspect facilities, and do an analysis of the capabilities of potential enemies. The consultants will use that information to make a recommendation on the type and strength of the security forces someone should maintain, and the kinds of equipment and countermeasures needed to install. Consultants will operate on any scale, from personal bodyguarding to worldwide corporate protection.

Arasaka Mguard v1
Arasaka Fguard v1
Arasaka Fguard v2
Arasaka Fguard v3
Arasaka MGuard v2
Arasaka Fguard v4
Police Services
A sub-division of its Security Division, Arasaka runs an extensive police contracting service. Police services are similar in many respects to security services, but the personnel receive slightly different training and equipment. The clients are cities and counties rather than corporations. As they are required to work with the public, Arasaka police officers are much more prone to have good interpersonal skills than their dour counterparts who work in private security. Most weapons and equipment are the same, but Arasaka managed police departments will have police-fitted cars and vans at their disposal and, for most situations, will be more inclined to use these than the heavy riot vehicles favored by the security departments.

Arasaka police, much like any corporate police, are required to work within the limits of civil and federal laws with regards to police procedures and ethics. Of course, as is always the case with corporate operations, they are more likely to circumvent these standards for convenience than public police departments. Countless towns, counties, arcologies, and cities around the world rely on private police forces. Among those serviced by Arasaka are San Diego, Cincinnati, Philadelphia, Honolulu, Bucharest (Romania), Belfast (Ireland), and Singapore; as well as several major Japanese cities including Fukuoka, Hiroshima, Nagoya, Yokohama, and Sapporo. Tokyo, interestingly enough, is still using a public police department despite Arasaka pressure.

Arasaka, however, does not always require payment for maintaining a police force in a city. Arasaka may take non-monetary compensation, including a hand in local policy making, land and real estate, or shipping and free port rights, or it may reap other advantages such as complete police and security control of an area near sensitive corporate facilities or an advantage over competitors who have offices in the same area. Examples of this can be seen in the Arasaka factories in Yokohama, which are protected by Arasaka Security and a municipal police force run by Arasaka.

Arasaka MPolice v1
Arasaka MPolice v2
Arasaka MPolice v3
Weapons Manufacturing
The weapons manufacturing division of Arasaka was the original intent of the company when it was founded by Sasai Arasaka in 1915. During the 1930s and 1940s the company took full advantage of the war and was heavily involved in the heavy industry side of things, manufacturing ships and planes for the Imperial Japanese Navy. After the defeat of Japan in 1945, the post war industrial sector was in shambles and it was only till Saburo took over in the 1960s the industrial manufacturing division picked back up. The corporation kept its Heavy Industry sector while also moving into manufacturing equipment for its own forces which fit into categories; light arms, computers, armor and small vehicles.

Within the the Greater Tokyo Meropolitan area, Arasaka has one of its largest manufacturing facilities located in Yokohama, used to supply their force with weapons. Arasaka produces all of the infantry weapons used by its troops and by its clients. In 2022 they began producing heavy weapons and exotics. Most of Arasaka's weapons production runs to small arms, tasers, EMP guns, automated guns, smart guns, melee katanas/tantos, and anti-personnel mines. They also manufacture a line of body armor and an assortment of very popular vehicles. Although their weapon sales are nowhere near that of the Militech Corporation, Arasaka's sales are brisk and their weapons are some of the most sought after from governments and corporations alike.

Arasaka Manufacturing advertises in a fashion similar to the security arm: in periodicals and information nets tailored to specific target clienteles. Weapons systems are promoted in police periodicals and military journals and security equipment is advertised in electronics magazines, corporate journals, and publications serving wealthy individuals. As with the security services, multi-media presentations and chips are available detailing the advantages of all Arasaka manufactured systems. No sensitive or proprietary information is included with the presentations or chips.

Arasaka doesn't usually interfere with the individual marketing tactics of its smaller subsidiary companies, but it does monitor promotions and advertising campaigns to make sure that they fall within the broad guidelines established by the corporation.

Cyberware Manufacturing
The Arasaka Corporation has a large line up of cyberware products that can be bought worldwide. Arasaka is one of the largest manufacturers of cyberware, and have a variety of lethal cyberware more common with Solos and mercs as well as non-lethal cyberware that can be seen on everyday citizens worldwide. Arasaka branded cyberware is frequently seen with millions of people opting to the efficiency and reliablity of the Japanese manufacturing giant. Johnny Silverhand, legendary rockerboy and terrorist, signature cyberarm was a product of Arasaka. Other very common products of cyberware are items such as the Mantis Blades or Gorilla Arms. Arasaka also deals in leg cyberware allowing users to replace the entire bottom half of their body. Full body conversions are all along the Arasaka cyberware services, one of their more famous customers Adam Smasher takes advantage of this division. Netrunner gear is also a specialty of the corporation with a variety of products commonly found in the market.

General Manufacturing
After the 1994 collapse, Arasaka set its sights on general manufacturing, buying out many smaller companies and their excess raw materials at a fraction of the cost. These failing business were turned around and became incredibly profitable for Arasaka, producing items from Airliners, to medical equipment and even children's toys. While part of Arasaka itself, they retained their original names and brands to not be associated with the more corporate and militaristic image of Arasaka. Arasaka General Manufacturing produces a host of consumer goods from spaceplanes, four different automobiles, pharmaceuticals, various lines of clothing, computer video games, prepackaged meals, phones, and office equipment.

Banking
The last core section and pillar of the Arasaka Corporation is the Arasaka Bank. The Bank is not widely visible to the public because it tends to deal exclusively with corporate and business accounts. The Arasaka Bank was established by Saburo, with help from his government contacts, in order to exploit the Japanese economic growth boom that he was predicting for the 1960s, 70s and 80s. The bank used a portion of the sizable Arasaka fortune in order to establish a capital base. Then, starting small and working up, it began taking corporate accounts, and, under the genius of Saburo's guidance, making high quality loans and investments with corporations destined for growth and expansion.

Under Saburo's expert touch, the Bank has turned a steady profit since its inception. Saburo's choice of loans and investments allowed the bank to remain on an even footing, even during the early nineties when several Japanese financial institutions were on shaky ground. There was a tight period during and after the '94 crash when several supposedly choice loans and investments went bad, but a little foresight enabled the Arasaka Bank to survive with minimal financial damage while many other institutions went bankrupt. Adroit management in the post-crash market kept the Bank turning a profit through those tough years.

The Arasaka Bank continues to do good business. Saburo was one of the first people to invest heavily in the cybernetic and Net related industries, and the returns from those transactions have padded the Arasaka accounts quite well. The Bank continues to deal primarily with corporate accounts, loans and investments, but it does handle some personal accounts, including those of the Arasaka family and several wealthy businessmen, celebrities and politicians from around the world. So far, business shows no sign of slacking.

Uniforms & Personnel
Arasaka Employee v1
Arasaka Employee v2
Arasaka Employee v3
Arasaka Employee v4
Arasaka Employee v5
Arasaka Employee v6
The Arasaka Corporation has definitive rules and policies guiding corporate dress, uniforms and equipment. There is little freedom for variation except in the uppermost echelons of the corporation, and amongst bodyguards and undercover operatives. Employees of subsidiaries owned by Arasaka but not bearing the Arasaka name are not required to conform to the same standards as employees of Arasaka itself. Except for the family compound, where all the security is personally chosen by Saburo Arasaka such as: Shintaro Takayama, Katsuo Iwashima, or Goro Takemura. Arasaka guards, soldiers, and agents can be any race, nationality, or gender.

Executives
For corporate executives and staff the watchword is conservative. Expensive is permissible, but ostentatious is frowned upon. Arasaka defers to the styles of the times, but only within the borders of what the home office considers tasteful. Men and women may wear suits and ties, preferably with dark colors. Women may wear skirts and dresses, but sexually provocative attire is tolerated only in the lowest echelons of the corporation, and then only to a certain extent. There are exceptions for special circumstances. Corporate officers, both male and female, are expected to dress in a manner befitting their position. Although it is not required, most executives wear a silver Arasaka logo pin on the left lapel, and those executives who used to be soldiers wear a silver chrysanthemum pin with the Arasaka logo superimposed. Most visible cyberware is considered acceptable unless it covers the face.

All white collar Arasaka employees receive an Arasaka company account Trauma Team card as part of their benefits. When off the job and away from company infirmaries they are required to keep this card on them at all times. Arasaka also manufactures its own portable computers and weapons, and it is considered poor taste to use non-Arasaka equipment when company-made products are available.

Corporate Security Guards
Guards are the most visible manifestation of the Arasaka Corporation. Consequently, Arasaka usually makes sure that their guards are immediately recognizable. Guard uniforms and equipment vary depending on the assignment, but the typical non-undercover Arasaka guard wears the black uniform considered so ubiquitous in the corporate world. This consists of black boots and gloves, a black jumpsuit, a black armor vest and a black cap with the Arasaka logo in silver. The guard's rank appears on the left arm and right collar wing, and the Arasaka logo on the right arm and left collar wing.

Corporate Soldiers
The basic uniform for the Arasaka soldier is similar to the guard outfit, but soldiers wear their names on their uniform breasts and have a chrysanthemum logo above their rank markings. In combat, soldiers also wear more extensive body armor than the standard guards, including visor helmets, armor on the torso and arms, and special trousers. All Arasaka soldiers are promoted from the guards.

Bodyguards
Arasaka bodyguards either dress in black or white suits, however the if client requires it they can carry whatever equipment the client is willing to provide or lease from Arasaka. This leads to tremendous variation as Arasaka provides bodyguard services for all sorts, from heads of state to rock stars. Almost all Arasaka bodyguards, male and female, are distinguished ex-soldiers.

Special Agents
Arasaka special agents can requisition whatever uniforms, resources and equipment they deem necessary to accomplish their mission. This equipment is usually not traceable to Arasaka. Arasaka maintains a large stock of weapons and equipment manufactured by other companies and purchased by dummy organizations for use by special agents and strike teams in black operations. As with bodyguards, most special agents are former soldiers who have distinguished themselves and been promoted and retrained.

Service Employees
Arasaka service employees use a uniform consisting of a baggy white jumpsuit and cap with white accessories. This is the same for all types of service employees. The only way one can tell the difference between maintenance, custodial, messenger and other service level employees is by the color and shape of the logos on their shoulders and caps, their I.D. badges, and the equipment they carry. In Japanese office buildings service employees show deference by bowing in the presence of executives. Failure to comply with this protocol can result in dismissal. This rule is not applied in Arasaka offices outside of Japan.

Market Strategy
The Arasaka Corporation functions as any corporation would, despite the origninal intent of Saburo Arasaka or any Arasaka family members. In order to do this it has to consistently sell its services to the professional community. All of Arasaka's advertising is designed and managed in-house by special departments, tailored to individual nations and regions, and run from offices in the towers. The Tokyo office handles international advertising and public relations. The Arasaka Corporation sponsors a variety of events, festivals, companies, brandances, anime, media personal, stores, hotels, and many more. There are more discreet tactics for marketing the three core branches of the corporation.

Arasaka Security
Arasaka's most profitable and widespread division is its Security branch. The Security branch was also Saburo Arasaka's most functional tool. Consequently, most marketing effort is concentrated upon the sale of security services and contracts. The key factor in the Marketing of those security services is Arasaka's continuing reputation for excellence.

Arasaka Bank
Arasaka Bank is advertised only within corporate publications. Their services are exclusive enough to not require extensive publicity. Information on financial services can only be obtained by appointment with the corporation and no information open to the public. Generally, the Arasaka Bank directly contacts the people and organizations with which it wants to do business.

Arasaka Manufactures
Arasaka Manufactures is advertised in a manner similar to the security branch: in publications and information networks suitable for the specific customers desired. Weapons systems are advertised in police publications and in the military press and the security team is advertised in electronic journals, corporate journals, and publications aimed at wealthy people. Like security services, multimedia presentations and chips are available detailing the advantages of equipment manufactured by Arasaka. No sensitive or restricted information is included in them.

Resources & Capital
Arasaka is one of the largest and richest corporations in the world. Its various holdings and properties span the globe. The board of directors has access to funds and resources that make those in many small countries pale. Matched with these resources is power in its most impressive form. Arasaka, like all corporations, is one of the few organizations capable of imposing its will on the world, filling the void left by the collapsed national governments.

Corporate Value
The total value of Arasaka's properties in 2020 was roughly ¥9.5 Trillion, €$475 Billion. Together with two or three other large corporations, Arasaka is approaching the barrier of half a billion Eb. Of those €$475 billion, €$175 billion is from Arasaka Bank. Most of the bank's assets consist of corporate and government debt for loans. €$200 billion represent the value, accounts and liquid and solid assets of the security and manufacturing branches. The remaining €$100 billion represent the value of Arasaka-owned subsidiary corporations, secret fund reserves and the personal fortune of 10,000 million euros from Saburo Arasaka and the family. By 2077, the corporation doubled its value to €$890 Billion across all its total properties.

Action Taken
Arasaka is a public corporation and has 560 million shares of common capital on the World Stock Exchange. Actually, the Arasaka family controls 54% of the company's titles. Another 15% is held by the board of directors located in Tokyo, Paris, Shanghai, and Kinshasa. The board is made up of Saburo's nineteen most trusted allies (Kei had held the twentieth seat in 2020, but was replaced with Hanako). Saburo, as the main shareholder, is the chairman of the board. Hanako Arasaka is also a nominal shareholder.

The remaining 31% of Arasaka's shares are traded openly in the market. Arasaka's shares are consistently strong and are considered a reliable investment. The value has fluctuated between 100 and 140 euros in the world stock market. Since 31% is an important part of capital, the corporation carefully monitors large acquisitions. If someone who does not like Arasaka seems to be trying to amass a portfolio of shares large enough to reach a position of power on the board, a black operations team is sent to "retire" the suspect. Sometimes a wealthy person or other corporation manages to amass enough actions to exercise considerable power in the voting of Arasaka shareholders and sometimes these people vote against the board. This is tolerated for reasons of image. However, when these shareholders become too noisy in the voting, and protest the exclusivity of the board and its goals, they are "convinced" by a black operations team to deviate from Arasaka's interests.

Material Resources
Arasaka, not counting its subsidiaries, owns 250 Osprey V-type aircraft and more than 250 AV-4. A quarter of each type of these vehicles is used by the corporate offices. Three quarters belong to the Arasaka guards and the military forces. Naturally there are some exchanges, but military versions usually have combat options and camouflage schemes and are less luxurious than their corporate counterparts. The corporation also owns twenty C-25 heavy cargo planes, which can carry skydivers, heavy equipment and cross intercontinental distances. Arasaka-owned airplanes include several small executive reactors and helicopters. They are unarmed, but they are fast and luxurious. The reactors have intercontinental capacity, strictly local helicopters.

The air transport capacity provided by the C-25s is complemented by the three Arasaka container ships. Sato Commercial Shipping, a subsidiary of Yokohama, owns other large ships, such as container ships, cisterns and submarine freighters. This gives Arasaka a considerable capacity for maritime displacement.

The military forces and the Arasaka guards possess a certain number of vehicles produced in house. More than 2,000 Riot 8 and Combat 10 are in use worldwide, and countless thousands of Kumas and modified Lexus cars. Another 2,500 of each of the combat vehicles are distributed throughout the warehouses of Japan, Europe and America. These units await to be sent to customers but can be activated for combat in a short period of time. Arasaka uses non-Arasaka manufactured vehicles from many other corporations such as Zetatech, Militech, Chevillon, Villefort, and Rayfield.

In addition to all this usual material, Arasaka has a reserve of other equipment too diverse and numerous to catalog. Various heavy military weapons, light weapons and equipment, specialized airplanes and land vehicles, ship fleets including a supercarrier call Kujira, supercomputers, linear frames and others are included.

Human Resources
Arasaka and its subsidiaries during the a majority of it's life from 2013 to 2045 employed more than one million people around the world. Three quarters are executives, researchers, counter intelligence, and various workers, both office and factory, from Arasaka and its many sub-corporations. The rest are troops of one kind or another, including guards, soldiers and agents. The troops are divided more or less as follows: 100,000 are Arasaka soldiers and special forces combat teams, 200,000 are guards for industrial contracting, bodyguards and advisers and 5000 are undercover agents, assassins and spies.

Black Resources
Arasaka has a secret resource that is more powerful than all its obvious forces: its secret influence on powerful people and corporations around the world. Unfortunately, the details of this particular resource are too intricate, extensive and unknown to the general public. The banking division of Arasaka was another brainchild of Saburo Arasaka, it was founded shortly after his takeover in the 1960's and he used his various government contacts to get if off the ground. He used a considerable sum of the family wealth as a capital base and started making loans and investments with other corporations. Saburo personally invested heavily in the Cybernetics and Net related industries, making a considerable return on investment and padding the bank accounts of Arasaka quite well.

Subsidiary Companies
Arasaka has more subsidiaries than almost any other corporation in the world. Arasaka's subsidiaries, like those of most large corporations, are connected through a complex network of cross-linked owners, loans and investments, commercial and financial ties and co-addresses. Arasaka Security, Arasaka Bank and Arasaka Manufactures are the central companies, all under the aegis of the Arasaka corporation. Despite the system of cross-linked owners, Arasaka is not a keiretsu. In a keiretsu there is no large concentration of power in any branch. In Arasaka, the entire corporation responds directly to the board of directors of the Arasaka Corporation and the main companies.

A few of the hundreds of subsidiaries of the Arasaka Corporation include: Arasaka Security, Arasaka Bank, Arasaka Manufactures, Arasaka International, Arasaka America, Arasaka European Group, Arasaka Police Services, Arasaka Chemistry, Sato Commercial Ship, Kanshiro MicroElectric, Barrett Engineering-Arasaka, Nagoya Transportation, Japan Airlines (JAL), Korusu Commercial Aircraft, Kyoran-MediaStorm Entertainment, Lubcheck Structural Materials, Pan-Ground Communications, Glaser Model Agency, Pharmaceutical Ito, All-American Pictures, Krieger Beer, Scandia Aerospace, Matsura Food Products, Children's Kingdom Toy Stores, Tokyo/Miami/Los Angeles Adventure Land Amusement Parks, and Tender-Love Baby Care Products.

Regional Offices
The major Arasaka towers are impressive places, projecting a large part of the corporation's public face. The larger the corporation, the more their offices and towers become a beacon of wealth and image. In keeping with Arasaka's monumental size and reputation, their towers are not only widespread, appearing in major cities across the globe, but standardized so they are instantly recognizable. The special facilities, such as training camps and factories, don't follow the strict image guidelines applied to the towers as they are less visible to the public. Major Arasaka Towers can be found in Tokyo, Taipai, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Seoul, Bangkok, Baghdad, Sydney, London, Hamburg, Paris, Madrid, Bratislava, Rome, Geneva, Stockholm, Helsinki, The Hague, Dubai, Kinshasa, Rio de Janeiro, Mexico City, Montreal, Night City, Nairobi and Moscow. Smaller offices exist in almost all major cities. In Japan almost every major city will have an Arasaka office; Osaka, Kyoto, Sapporo, Kitakyushu, Narita, and Fukuoka. The NUSA is home to some of the most regional offices outside of Japan; Washington, D.C., New York City, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, and Honolulu.

Personnel
A tower contains the top Arasaka officials for any given region, including the National Directors and Regional Vice Presidents. Beneath the Regional VR will be the Regional Security Director, Regional Sales Director, and Regional Bank Director. Chain of command for the individual departments proceeds downwards from Region to Area, Local, District, and Site. The Tokyo tower has the offices for the corporation President, executive vice presidents, board of directors, and other top officials. All large offices also have R&D departments for developers either not cleared for the Honshu R&D facility, or who need to work in a specific area of the world for one reason or another.

Guards and soldiers are quartered and trained at specialized facilities around the world and throughout Arasaka served countries. Sizable contingents are always billeted and maintained at major towers for purposes of on-site security, quick response and firefighting. An Arasaka tower should have between one and two hundred guards and fifty and one hundred soldiers billeted on site at any given time, although not all of those will be on duty or available. Larger contingents of guards and troops intended for client rotation are maintained in barracks located outside of major cities. Most of the soldiers and guards available will be typical contract types, but some will be elite solos.

Security
Security at Arasaka towers is, of course, rigid. Quads of armed guards and soldiers patrol twenty-four hours a day. Sensitive installations are under 24 hour manned protection. Special response teams are on call at all times, prepared to scramble in defense of the tower or any Arasaka client requesting aid. Redundant security systems monitor computers, access, and traffic control. Netrunners are on duty at all times, scanning for intrusion from the Net. Air defense systems under computer and human control can be activated at a moment's notice. Special security centers deep in the subterranean areas of each tower monitor and coordinate the individual security systems and teams.

Public Relations
Arasaka in the Media
Arasaka Tokyo Headquarters used as backdrop in a Japanese Film.

Public relations has been problematic for Arasaka Corporation since the early 2000s. The corporation suffers under an image of brooding, ominous power. The Arasaka board of directors has attempted to cast the best light possible on itself, extolling the virtues of its security department, touting the philanthropic work of the bank, explaining how its manufacturing arm and subsidiaries, and sponsoring many festivals or expos that are the backbone of an economically sound in Japan. Though there is truth to this it has not helped much to overcome the dark images associated with the corporation. People respect Arasaka, people will need Arasaka, people will occasionally thank God for Arasaka, but there will always be an undercurrent of fear tempering their attitude towards the corporation.

Many people around the world would view Arasaka in a different view. In Japan and various Asian nations Arasaka can be seen in a more positive light often helping in the reconstruction or protection of various nations. Japan is split with many believing Arasaka to be a menace and others believing the corporation to be beneficial. Places such as Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, or Australia generally have a more positive view of the corporation. In the NUSA, the country was also split between people who showed general positive thoughts of the corporation being one of the few helping the country after the government failed them with others believing they represented the Corporate Colonialism that plagued the planet. However after the Fourth Corporate War, and President Kress blamed the Night City bombing on them, more Americans saw Arasaka as the enemy while others saw through the Militech backed president.

When the corporation gets wind of someone sniffing around in the wrong place, or when someone finds out something they shouldn't, the local Arasaka office will arrange for them to have an accident. If it is a particularly sensitive mission the home office in Tokyo will be contacted to prep a special operation to deal with the problem. By and large, most local offices are more than adequately equipped and staffed to handle such tasks. In the past reporters have attempted to write an autobiography of Hanako Arasaka without the consent of the family, Saburo took great offense to this and had the reporter eliminated

Typically, great pains will be taken to see that a black operation is not connected with Arasaka unless the corporation wants to make an example of the target. There are, however, times when Arasaka goes out of its way to advertise its involvement in an operation. This is usually when it is retaliating against some person, group or other corporation that has publicly infringed against it. Arasaka also has a policy of visibly assassinating individuals and assaulting corporations that breach security at installations protected by Arasaka contracts. In these situations Arasaka is powerful and ruthless, maintaining its reputation as a persistent and deadly adversary.

Arasaka's black ops and political and financial influence had come of age in the world of 2020, giving the corporation far reaching influence across the world. Hundreds of influential politicians and agents at all levels of government and in every important country in the world are in Arasaka's pocket. Thousands of influential and wealthy private citizens, police departments and corporate executives are also under Arasaka's control. Arasaka already has more financial power in the industrialized world than any other single corporation. If it weren't for other corporate alliances arrayed against it, it might have been the single most powerful factor on Earth.

The highest priority for Arasaka employees is loyalty. This is especially true in the Security arm where most of the sensitive operations are handled. Arasaka Security agents will lay their lives on the line for the corporation first and the client second. Troops are required to demonstrate unquestioning obedience when they are dispatched on missions, although they must use initiative and intelligence on assignment or in action. Agents and executives who show signs of wavering loyalty, or fail badly in their assignments are dismissed. Those who betray the company, or cause it damage are eliminated.

Enemies and Allies
The Arasaka Corporation has many enemies around the world. These enemies range from; corporations that compete directly with the company or have clashed with it, powerful individuals who suspect that their blackmailers have some relation to Arasaka, and even law enforcement officers from all over the world who suspect the extent of the illegal operations of Arasaka.

Among the corporations Arasaka has dealt with in the past are InfoComp, which had studied Arasaka's history and holdings multiple times for its database, Network News 54, which has lost several reporters investigating scandals related to Arasaka, and finally Militech. InfoComp is tiny compared to Arasaka, and receives little attention. Arasaka avoids direct confrontations with NN54, however the corporation will often report bad press for the corporation while praising its competitor. Militech and Arasaka have been in conflict on several occasions, and continue to face each other on a regular basis. Tensions between the two corporations through mutual sabotage have led to a Corporate War in the 2020s. Law enforcement agencies are contained not only by eliminating their agents, but by the skill with which Arasaka conceals its conflicts of interest and illegal operations.

Within the homeland of the corporation, Japan, Arasaka has also had problems with various corporations that try and undermine its operations. Many Japanese corporations formed a union specifically designed to counter Arasaka, known as FACS. The union has fought against Arasaka by exposing its corruption within the country. Another corporation from the East was Kang Tao, which made efforts to steal information, technology, and various corporate employees bought out from Arasaka to forward their own success.

Within EEC, Arasaka generally has conflict with the European council on occasion. However most of its operations were stable. In the late 2020s, tensions rose between Arasaka and a European corporation known as Amazonian Security.

Allies with Arasaka can be as grand as its enemies. Since the early 2000s, Arasaka has held a good relationship with World News Service often the two participating in conflicts as allies. WNS is one of few media corporations that is allowed to interview or report on Arasaka operations. Besides corporations, Arasaka has many allies within various nations in the world. Finally the corporation as strong ties with underground organizations such as the various Yakuza clans, Triads, and even the Tyger Claws.

Controversies
Like most megacorporations, Arasaka is frequently accused of unethical practice such as blackmail, bribery, extortion, and hiring mercenaries for covert, illegal operations. These mercenary operations could include suppressing legal demonstrations, assassinations, and abductions of high-level corporate experts and officials. The Arasaka Corporation was officially found guilty by the verdict of General Lundee's commission of the detonation of a thermonuclear device in the Night City Corporate Plaza in 2023. The result of the investigation have been openly and repeatablely questioned.[5] In 2077, after the official announcement of the Relic program many people as well as Religious organizations saw the project as inhuman and disturbing.

Notable Employees
Main article: List of Arasaka employees
Database Entry (2077)
ARASAKA CORPORATION
Arasaka Corporation
The Arasaka Corporation is the longest-operating megacorp in the world. Its origins date back to the mid-20th century when a young Saburo Arasaka inherited his father's nascent company, transforming it into a global leader in security. Today, the Arasaka Corporation is known as an arms-manufacturing giant that has had its hands in military conflicts across all continents. Due to the latest advances in technology and the company's seemingly unlimited capital, Arasaka is poised to achieve its political goals on a massive scale. Arasaka's soldiers and agents are known not only for their excellent training, but also for their steadfast loyalty to corporate values and CEO Saburo Arasaka himself, who, despite his advancing age, continues to govern the corporation with an iron fist. Even discussions of a succession plan must be kept to a whisper, because no one would dare openly question the authority of the world's greatest weapons empire... Almost no one.[3]

Key Facilitates
Main article: Arasaka Known Facilities
Products
2020
Type	Products
Weapons	Arasaka WAA Bullpup Assault Weapon, Arasaka WMA "Minami 10", Arasaka WSA Autopistol, Arasaka WCAA "Rapid Assault Shot 12", Sternmeyer M-5A Squad Automatic Weapon, Arasaka WXA Computer-Aimed Weapon, Barret-Arasaka Light-20, Arasaka Arms Half-Bow, Arasaka "Nauseator" Riot-Control Device, Arasaka WCCA Susano-0, Setsuko-Arasaka WSE "Kajiya", Setsuko-Arasaka Nova, Setsuko-Arasaka PMS, Barrett-Arasaka WSSE "Hiyari", Arasaka WSS/R "Dahiyari", Arasaka EMF Launcher
Wheeled Vehicles	Arasaka Riot 8, Arasaka Combat 10, Arasaka Kuma Land Rover, Lexus ZS-5000 (Security Retrofit)
Helicopters	Boeing C-25 Cargo Aircraft
Tank	Arasaka Daisasori Urban Combat Cyberwalk
Watercraft	Arasaka Eel
Full Body Conversion	Arasaka "DAIONI" Powered Armor Conversion
ACPA	Arasaka Standard-B (Mohanjin-B), Arasaka Standard-C (Mohanjin-C)
Equipment	Toshiba PRC-10 Two-Way Radio, Arasaka OmniTec Radar Detector, Arasaka "Komaku" Laser Mikes, Arasaka JetSetter Executive Briefcase, Arasaka ECM Comm-Scrambler, Arasaka "Scanaway" Scanner Gates, Arasaka RDAK Spy & Assassin Remote, Arasaka R-101 Lie Detector, Arasaka "Blackjack" Stealth Armor
2045
Type	Products
Assault Rifles	Arasaka WAA Bullpup Assault Weapon, Arasaka Prototype Variable Assault Rifle
Shotguns	Arasaka "Rapid Assault"
Sniper Rifles	Arasaka WSSA Sniper System
Submachine Guns	Arasaka "Minami 10"
Melee Weapons	Arasaka Weeping Reaver Katana
2077
Type	Products
Assault Rifles	HJSH-18 Masamune, Nowaki
Bladed Weapons	Military Katana
Pistols	HJKE-11 Yukimura, JKE-X2 Kenshin, Tamayura
Submachine Guns	Shigure, TKI-20 Shingen, Senkoh LX
Grenades	GASH Antipersonnel Grenade
Equipment	Kanetsugu, SO-21 Saika, RC-7 Aswang, RC-7 Ifrit
Vehicles	Kujira
Clothing & Armor	Cap with camera, Carbon-fiber side cap, Polyamide corporate dress, Polycarbonate corporate blazer, Formal jacket with light armorplating, Reactive-layer office skirt, Engineer hardhat with headset, Kabuto with composite plating, Hazmat suit, Spacesuit/w/ helmet, Waterproof combat turtleneck, Composite netrunning nanoweave suit, Polycarbonate-laced bulletproof aramid vest, Ultralight hybrid tactical harness, Thermoset aramid collar, Tactical techgogs
Cyberware Arm Implants	Mantis Blades, Gorilla Arms, Projectile Launch System
Cyberdeck Operating Systems	Arasaka Mk.3, Arasaka Mk.4
Cyberware Immune Systems	Pain Editor
Cyberware Circulatory Systems	Syn-Lungs
Mechs	Arasaka Robot R Mk.2
Misc.	Arasaka David IIIC, Arasaka Shepherd A-T, Arasaka Replicator, Relic, Kunai, Prototype Arasaka Cyberskeleton
Behind the scenes
To most, the Arasaka name does not connote the virtues and flaws of individuals like Yorinobu, Hanako, or Saburo, but a massive, faceless megacorporation able to disrupt the lives of millions with a few tweaks to a screadsheet. Founded in late 19th-century Japan, the Arasaka corporation managed several successful transformations that helped it survive the crises of the 20th century and assume a leading position in the 21st. Currently, its areas of forces are corporate security and elite banking services, with significant revenue streams coming from the sales of weapons and military vehicles. Like most corporations, it is also extremely active in off-the-books operations. Partaking in blackmailing competitors, overthrowing hostile governments and hiring mercenaries to do all kinds of dirty work. Visually, Arasaka is represented by an angular, elegant form of our Neomilitarist style. It's color palette is dominated by blacks and blues, the wardrobes of its executives by elegant suits of fine wool and silk draped over subtle, functional cyberware. The most visible parts of Arasaka's identity, however, are its all-lowercase brand name and three-limbed-tree logo. Engraved on its weapons, vehicles and buildings, they strike a mixture of revulsion and awe in whoever sees them.
The Official Digital Artbook of Cyberpunk 2077

Trivia
The name Arasaka is most likely a reference to Arisaka Nariakira, an Imperial Japanese Army lieutenant general, who designed the Arisaka family of rifles.
The name Arasaka could also be a reference to the iconic Arasaka HLR-12X Heavy Laser Rifle from the 1982 manga and 1988 anime movie Akira.
Arasaka was the first corporation created by Mike Pondsmith when writing Cyberpunk 2013. It was created as the main antagonists in the adventure Never Fade Away, which has been featured in 2013, Cyberpunk 2020, RED, and 2077. Since then Arasaka has been the main corporation to be featured in nearly every Cyberpunk media.
Arasaka is noticeably absent from Cyberpunk V3.0, in the alternate timeline the corporation was defeated in the 4th Corporate War and was presumably considered defunct in 203X. V3.0 is the only core series book to exclude Arasaka.
In Cyberpunk 2013, the CEO was Kenji Arasaka, this was later changed to Kei Arasaka in Cyberpunk 2020 and also revealed the character of Saburo Arasaka.
Also in 2013, Toshiro Arasaka was the CEO of the American branch of the corporation. In 2020, Toshiro's surname was removed presumably to not have a member of the Arasaka family killed too soon.
The Arasaka Corporation is refereed to as a Shogunate and Saburo Arasaka a shogun at various points in Cyberpunk 2020.
Shogunate: The Shogunate was the hereditary military dictatorship of Japan (1192–1867). Legally, the shogun answered to the emperor, but, as Japan evolved into a feudal society, control of the military became tantamount to control of the country. The emperor remained in his palace in Kyōto chiefly as a symbol of power behind the shogun. The term shogun appeared in various titles given to military commanders commissioned for the imperial government's 8th- and 9th-century campaigns against the Ezo (Emishi) tribes of northern Japan.
Hanako Arasaka, in Cyberpunk Red Jumpstart Kit, is head of the Bakafu Faction, which is based off of Bakufu.
Bakufu: The administration of a shogun is called bakufu (幕府) in Japanese and literally means "government from the maku (ja: 幕)." During the battles, the head of the samurai army used to be sitting in a scissor chair inside a semi-open tent called maku that exhibited its respective mon or blazon. The application of the term bakufu to the shogun government shows an extremely strong and representative symbolism.
In the lore, Arasaka breaks into three warring factions. Kiji, Hato, and rebel faction Taka as stated in Cyberpunk RED, The World of Cyberpunk 2077, and Cyberpunk 2077. However in the Cyberpunk Red Jumpstart kit, the names were; Bakafu, Princess, and Rebel. The difference between the two books is a mystery.
Despite being known for their military vehicles (cars, tanks, and AVs), Arasaka has no official vehicles produced by them in Cyberpunk 2077.
The Japanese of Arasaka is "アラサカ社" said exactly how it's spelled, with soft sounding "a" as well as a soft "r."
The logo of the Arasaka Corporation is a three part hollyhock "mon". It is based, as an homage, on the symbol of the Tokugawa clan.[14]

Biotechnica is a relatively small corporation. It created Triticum vulgaris megasuavis, the genus of wheat that is refined into the synthetic grain alcohol/fuel CHOOH2. Biotechnica licenses the rights to use its genetically modified T. vulgaris megasuavis plants to petrochemical companies like SovOil and Petrochem.[2][3]
Besides the utilizing the licensing rights of CHOOH2 to other corporations, Biotechnica has a multitude of Bioware products on the market.


Contents
1	Overview
2	History
2.1	1990s
2.2	2000s
2.3	2022
2.4	2077
3	Equipment & Resources 2020
4	Key Facilities
4.1	Biotechnica American HQ
4.2	Biotechnica Corporate Hotel
4.3	Biotechnica Protein Farms
4.4	Biotechnica Mono-clonal Research Station
5	Database Entry (2077)
6	Products
6.1	2020
6.2	2045
7	Gallery
8	References
Overview
When the fuel crisis began to affect the industrialized community in the late 1990s, Biotechnica, then a small firm with only one office, came up with the answer: CHOOH2 (pronounced 'chew two'). CHOOH2 (not its actual chemical formula) is a complex grain alcohol produced by genetically engineered yeasts and wheat strains created by Biotechnica.[4]

The potential of CHOOH2 was realized almost immediately after it was introduced, and within a few years all fuel burning vehicles and power plants had converted to the new fuel.

Despite holding global patents, Biotechnica lacked the production facilities to meet global demand, forcing it to license production to several large agribusinesses and petro-corporations. These transactions made Biotechnica a very wealthy, but still small, company. Companies such SovOil and Petrochem have the exclusive rights into producing the fuel.[5]

Its labs have provided much of the tech that enabled the Pacifica Confederation to develop new bio-engineered "replacement species," and Biotechnica is active in restoring both animals and habitat throughout the blighted environments of this era.[6]

In 2020, it is looking into more breakthroughs and is constantly expanding. Biotechnica holds facilities in Italy, UK, France, US, and Japan.

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

History
1990s
Biotechnica started as a small corporation based out of Rome, Italy. However, in 1991, amidst an energy crisis, Biotechnica developed a substitute for fossil fuel that would end up being called CHOOH2, changing the world forever. They weren't a big corporation and weren't able to keep up with the supply and demand the world would need. As a result, they sold the exclusive license for the production and distribution of the product to Petrochem. CHOOH2 became the standard fuel around the world. Capitalizing on its success, the board of directors sold the license to 14 other manufacturers around the world, However, Petrochem was still responsible for 60% of the world's supply[2] with the largest amount of soil to grow the yeast needed for production.

Biotechnica's products raised their capital by a huge margin and gave them the status of a megacorporation. Biotechnica started making deals with Arasaka, and settled on a mutual beneficial agreement, providing troops in exchange for exclusive biological weapons.

2000s
Their second discovery was kept secret due to it being illegal in the majority of countries. In 2004, Francis Young was successful in human cloning experiments, however it wasn't until 16 years later in 2020 that he succeeded in producing the first self-aware fully functional human clone by implanting a construct personality. Initially, this development was artificial, but soon enough they began experimenting to insert natural digitized personalities in clones using something similar in tech to the Soulkiller. The main R&D cloning facility of Biotechnica located in Night City had a staff of about 200 scientists and security.

The biggest goal for Biotechnica was to bring back the flora and the fauna that changed significantly in the 1990s due to climate changes. They hold facilities worldwide specializing in this field, slowly trying to rebuild the environment. In the 2020s they created a natural park in Night City known as Lake Park. They also cloned animals in an attempt to preserve them and sell to people for a high profit margin.

2022
The Fourth Corporate War saw Biotechnica remain as neutral as it possibly could, allowing them to get through the war without many problems. They supplied Militech and Arasaka with weapons and other biological equipment. However due to their previous deals with Arasaka and their continued protection support from the company, Arasaka got many exclusive devices behind the scenes.

2077
In the 2070s, Biotechnica has been working towards rebuilding the environment, including restoration of forests and bioengineering previously extinct animal species across the world. The corporation has also participated in researching various vaccines and future medicine products as the effects of climate change take its toll on humans.[7]

On the South side of the Badlands of Night City, Biotechnica has many protein farms that has made the landscape more livable than the rest. These immense, tent-like structures on the outskirts are but a few of the many farms Biotechnica manages worldwide, producing synthetic protein derivatives on a massive scale.[8] The Biotechnica protein farms are also the base product for much of Night City's food source.

Biotechnica offers its employees up to six paid vacation days a year. In 2077, the corporation is considered the third biggest and best place to work for in Night City.[9]

Equipment & Resources 2020
Biotechnica is a rich corporation from Europe and has a heap of resources at their disposal.

10 AV-4 Assault Vehicles
5 Corporate Jets
3 Osprey II Aircraft
One Boeing C-25 Heavy Cargo Jet
In addition, each office maintains two helicopters and a surgery capable infirmary. Due to the worldwide importance of its developments, Biotechnica has a fair amount of power in the political community, and it can usually obtain whatever military equipment it needs, although some items may take more time to procure than others. Biotechnica has one orbital research workstation.[5]

Key Facilities
Biotechnica American HQ
Main article: Biotechnica building
Biotechnica Corporate Hotel
Main article: Biotechnica Hotel
Biotechnica Protein Farms
Main article: Biotechnica Flats
Biotechnica Mono-clonal Research Station
Main article: Biotechnica Mono-clonal Research Station
Database Entry (2077)
BIOTECHNICA
Biotechnica
Biotechnica is a corporation specializing in genetic engineering and biotechnical, pharmaceutical and microbiological research. It was in Biotechnica's labs that the world's leading specialists first made the breakthrough discovery that brought the world back from the brink of a fuel crisis. The discovery? CHOOH2, a fuel based on synthetic alcohol obtained from genetically modified wheat. This patent made the corporation a major player on the market. To this day, Biotechnica retains exclusive rights to the product – and complete control over the fuel market. Its other major field of business is food production: large companies such as All Foods also fall under the Biotechnica umbrella.[7]

Products
2020
Type	Products
Bioware	Biotechnica Neo Appendix,[10] Biotechnica "Sunblocker" Sunscreen,[10] Biotechnica Neo Lungs[10]
Items	Flavored Cigarettes[11]
Equipment	Biotechnica Nutrisupplement,[12] Nymph Perfume,[12] Biotechnica "Smart" Gas mask,[13] Biotechnica Toxi-Stoppers,[13] Biotechnica EnduroDrink[10]
2045
Type	Products
Weapons	Biotechnica Enviro-Launcher[14]
Cyberware	Heuristic Health Monitor[15]

Fuyutsuki Electronics is a Japanese corporation in Cyberpunk 2077.
Overview
Fuyutsuki Electronics is a mass marketed, Japanese corporation that sells electronics devices including Cyberdecks, televisions, radios and more. Datashards are manufactured by Fuyutsuki and can be found sold in their stores across the world.

Fuyutsuki Eletronics stores can be found throughout Night City, as well as their advertisements across numerous billboards and posters. In Ripperdocs, V is able to purchase cyberdecks that are manufactured by Fuyutsuki. The "Tinkerer Mk.3" is an extremely high quality cyberdeck marketed towards those who are not particularly net-capable.

In many wealthy apartments, Screen Glass televisions can be found that are manufactured by Fuyutsuki.

Kang Tao (simplified Chinese: 康陶) is a weapons manufacturer, initially Taiwanese, later on Chinese. Kang Tao was originally headquartered in Taiwan. which had become a manufacturing haven in the late 2000s, after the country declared independence with the help of Japan and Arasaka. Kang Tao became an industry giant among the Taiwanese companies. Unlike the rest, it kept its independence by not selling out to Japanese business interests. Kang Tao manufactured weapons that were distributed through Asia and made their way to the US.[1][2]
In the 2040s, Kang Tao was restructured into a Chinese-based company, making its way to the top tier of weapons manufacturing at a tremendous pace thanks to bold choices, courageous strategy, and government backing.[3] In 2077, the corporation was mainly known for its firearms, especially their newest generation of so-called "smart-guns", weapons that employed gyrojet technology to fire caseless guided ammunition, but were also becoming important players in the mercenary and security markets.


Contents
1	History
1.1	2020
1.2	2040s
1.3	2077
2	Public Relations
2.1	Controversies
3	Notable Employees
4	Database Entry
5	Products
5.1	2020
5.2	2077
6	Gallery
7	Trivia
8	References
History
2020
In 2020, Kang Tao became one of few corporations that was not bought out by the Japanese corporations.[2] Kang Tao remained independent in Taiwan as its small firearm manufacturing division was widely successful. Their pistols became very popular among the streets of Asia with many gangers opting for the reliable and inexpensive brand.[1]

When the DataKrash occurred, the CEO of Kang Tao at the time committed suicide.[4]

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

2040s
In the years after the Fourth Corporate War, Asia was ravaged war and unrest which left many countries crippled and deeply scarred. China was no exception as it recovered from internal turmoil, but its years of rebuilding and recovery were also a time of great opportunity. The restructuring of Kang Tao began in 2046 with the appointment of a former army colonel, Shiming Xu, to manage what was considered an obsolete and collapsing corporation kept afloat by government subsidies. After four years under Colonel Xu's direction, the modernized and debt-free firm officially debuted on the market in 2050 with their A-22B Chao "smart" pistol. Thanks to the company's alleged government connections, the corporation invested heavily in modern research facilities, rapidly expanding the "smart weapons" market. Throughout the next 20 years, through new research facilities funded by the government, Kang Tao overcame its old rivals, coming out as a top-tier weapon manufacturer on par with Tsunami Arms and Arasaka.

Since 2072, Kang Tao had tripled its stock value, becoming a leading weapon exporter in Asia. The past fifty years of war and unrest left many Asian countries crippled and deeply scarred.[5]

2077
In 2077, an explosion at a company refinery in Hangzhou left over 50,000 dead. Although official accounts cleared the corporation of negligence, many still blamed them for the explosion.[5] The same year Kang Tao expressed interest in the Pacifica district of Night City. The city council responded explaining that they would sell the district for cheap, if Kang Tao agreed to clear out the area of all crime. No official deals had been made.

Kang Tao was also considered the fourth biggest and best corporation to work for in Night City. It provides employees with a Trauma Team Gold insurance package. At the same time, Kang Tao requires employees to sign a 50-year loyalty pledge.[6]

Public Relations
Public relations for Kang Tao have broadly remained the same since its restructuring in the 2050s. Kang Tao's relations with the Chinese government have kept it out of trouble in the past, and most nations generally recognized it as a Megacorporation worth doing business with. However, its relations with other corporations are strained, as Kang Tao has made various efforts to steal from competitors.[7]

Controversies
Kang Tao has had the reputation for being negligent in its various endeavors. The corporation has been involved with the death of thousands of citizens and employees due to its operations, and also has a reputation for stealing much research from other corporations in its field. While Kang Tao is aggressive, it manages to keep many of its controversial operations secret.[5]

Notable Employees
Main article: List of Kang Tao employees
Database Entry
KANG TAO
Kang Tao
Kang Tao is a Chinese company and one of the world's largest weapons manufacturers. For years now, Kang Tao has increasingly become a worthy competitor for Arasaka by introducing some of the most bleeding-edge technology the market has ever seen. The megacorp consistently surpasses client expectations for quality weapons and equipment that suits both military and paramilitary needs. But most notably, Kang Tao is widely recognized for its specialization in the development, patenting and production of Smart-class weaponry and weapon systems. In this niche market, they are without equal.[7]

Products
2020
Type	Products
Guns	Kang Tao Type 97, Polymer One-Shot Cannon[8]
2077
Type	Products
Pistols	A-22B Chao
Submachineguns	G-58 Dian
Shotguns	L-69 Zhuo
Grenades	Recon Grenade (Sticky)
Equipment	Type 2067, Jue
Cyberware	NeoFiber, Blood Pump

The monoblade series is just a part of our technology. We cannot make a profit by this tech alone, however, because of the high overhead involved in manufacture. We are under the umbrella of our corporate group. Eh? Zaibatsus? Weren't they disbanded by an American general...MacDonald, or something?
– Nakahara Akira, Research Assistant at Kendachi Labs, Pacific Rim Sourcebook

Kenshiri-Adachi Armaments, more commonly known by its abbreviated name, Kendachi or Kendachi Arms, is a arms manufacturer specializing in advanced technology in melee weapons headquartered in Tokyo, Japan. While not a Megacorporation or zaibatsu, the corporation is part of a keiretsu system.


Contents
1	History
2	Database Entry (2077)
3	Notable Employees
4	Products
4.1	2020
4.2	2027
4.3	2045
4.4	2077
5	Gallery
6	References
History
Kenshiri-Adachi Armaments, known by all as Kendachi, is a Japanese corporation that mainly specializes in high-quality melee weapons and purpose-built chipware. Kendachi's advanced tech can be found in nearly every city worldwide, including its excellent line-up of melee weapons, which consist of various katanas and tantos as well as signature monoblade (monomolecular blade) series. Kendachi is one of the few companies with orbital factories, being the world's top producer in the making of orbital crystal and glass-fiber, a process that continued until 2045.[1]

The company can trace its origin to the sixteenth-century Kenshiri family's blacksmith, based in Chuo-ku, the original center of historic Edo (Tokyo). Originally, however, Kendachi lacked the resources and money to acquire the advanced tech for which it is has become known. As a corporation, Kendachi entered the global spotlight in the first two decades of the twenty-first century, after their fusion with the Adachi company, when it conquered the market with a wide range of high-tech monoweapons and flamethrowers. Chuo-ku is still their main headquarters, but today the corporation also has many regional offices in Osaka, Seattle, London, Night City, New York City, and Brasilia.[2]

Big corporations in Japan often invest funds in small companies with original tech to place them in within the exclusive keiretsu system, where multiple companies are interlocked in an alliance that is informal in a legal sense. This is what allowed Kendachi to become what it is today. The Monoblade series, a synonym for Kendachi in some countries, was developed by CEO Kendachi Tessho to demonstrate the uses for his crystal technology in order to gain funding for what was once a low-profit company.[3]

As a side-note, monoblades were not sold as weapons in Japan. They were only used in industrial equipment. The president, Kendachi-san himself, was also known for his business acumen, but also for his skill at kendo and short temper. He sometimes dealt with troublemakers himself, with the aid of a crack solo troop. And yes, they were licensed to carry monokatanas in Japan.[4]

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

Database Entry (2077)
KENDACHI
Kendachi
The roots of the Kendachi corporation (or rather, Kenshiri-Adachi Armaments) harken back to the 16th century, when the Japanese Kenshiri family established themselves as a blacksmithing clan. The corporation took on its final form in the 21st century after merging with the Adachi company. These days, Kendachi is known for its reliable monoweapons made in factories in low Earth orbit. In fact, such products have become synonymous with the brand; utterly terrifying in a skilled solo's hands, these must-have blades are responsible for the Japanese corporation's success. Current CEO Tessho Yokoi is known for his keen business sense, deep knowledge of kendo and short fuse. Occassionally, he's been known to deal with his enemies himself – using his own corporation's indispensible monoweapons, of course. You'd be hard-pressed to find a better endorsement.[5]

Notable Employees
Main article: List of Kendachi employees
Products
2020
Type	Products
Katanas/Swords	Kendachi Mono-Two[6], Kendachi Monosword Cane[7], Kendachi Monoknife®[8], Kendachi MonoKatana®[8], Kendachi M-33 Powersword[6], Kendachi M-94 Rapier[9]
Flame Weapons	F-253 heavy flamethrower[8], Dragon handheld flamethrower, Kendachi Dragon[6]
Melee	Kendachi Monowhip[10]
Cyberware	Kendachi Monowire[10]
2027
RPG
Type	Products
Katana	Kendachi MonoKatana®[11], Kendachi Monoknife®[12]
2045
Type	Products
Melee Weapons	Kendachi Mono-Wakizashi, Kendachi Mono-Katana, Kendachi Mono-Three, Kendachi Mono-Guard
Thrown Weapons	Kendachi Mono-Star
Shotguns	Kendachi Dragon Flamethrower
2077
Kendachi - New Spring Catalogue is a readable shard in Cyberpunk 2077 that contains a catalogue of some of Kendachi weapons. The weapons, "Kendachi M-55 Powersword" and "Kendachi Mono-Two CLASSIC" are mentioned on the Shard and in the lore and additionally on the readable shard KENDACHI MICRO-76 INFO LOG it mentions some brief info about a weapon called the "Kendachi Micro-76". The weapons mentioned above are not currently available in game.

Type	Products
Katana	Kendachi M-55 Powersword (mentioned)
Kendachi Mono-Two CLASSIC (mentioned)
Cyberware	Kendachi Monowire[1]
unknown	Kendachi Micro-76 (mentioned)

Matsushima-Kiroshi Optics, Kiroshi Optics or just Kiroshi, is a Japanese corporation that originated in the mountains of Nagano Prefecture. It's a relatively small Japanese corporate group that specializes in cyberware, consisting of Kiroshi General Cybernetics and Kiroshi Optics, known collectively as the Kiroshi Group. It is widely regarded as the leading expert in producing optical cyberware.


Contents
1	Overview
2	History
2.1	1990s - 2020s
2.2	2077
3	Products
3.1	2020
3.2	2045
3.3	2077
4	Notes
5	Trivia
6	Gallery
7	References
Overview
An industry leader in optics design and manufacturing. Kiroshi is well known to most users as a producer of high quality cyberoptic implants and scanners, but the company is also heavily invested in orbital programs across Asia and the Americas. After a brief conflict with the European Zeiss company during the Fourth Corporate War, the two rivals signed a peace treaty and divided their spheres of influence. However they remained in a state of cold war, spying on one another, and possibly sabotaging each other's projects. Kiroshi are also shrewd advertisers of their products. They sponsor celebrities and pop artists like Us Cracks, who are known for their unique and eccentric eye implants.[3]

History
GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

1990s - 2020s
Kiroshi is the general name of a small corporate group called, appropriately enough, "The Kiroshi Group." The Corporate group was founded in Kamisuwa, Nagano, Japan. It is a cybernetics company and is number one in the world in the making of optics. The corporation consist of two companies: Kiroshi General Cybernetics and Kiroshi Optics, of which Optics gets the lion's share of the business.

In 2013 the group changed its name from "Kiro-shiya" to "Kiroshi." It was originally a watch manufacturer in Kamisuwa, which expanded in the 1980s. It got its biggest boost by launching an orbital factory with the aid of JAB and Kenjiri Technology. Kiroshi got the availability to monopolized the optics business due to the quality of its orbital eyes and other products, such as the Optishield, the optical HUD (heads-up display), the optical remote cyber-cam, and the anti-dazzle protection "Opti-Flash."

Kiroshi maintained very close ties with Kenjiri, and they had a joint design firm in orbit, to be closer to the manufacturing process. In 2020, Kiroshi was aiming to dominate the Asian market. Hong Kong and Shanghai, where cheap Kiroshi imitations are made, were the corporations prime targets.[4] Aside from the Headquarters in Nagano, Kiroshi has other major offices in Tokyo, Osaka, Seattle, Night City, Washington, D.C., Hong Kong, Shanghai, Singapore.[4] Kiroshi products can be found just about anywhere in the world, from smaller shops to large electronic chains.

2077
In 2077, Kiroshi has invested heavily in orbital facilities and generally much of it's manufacturing is done within their stations. Kiroshi has also invested heavily into marketing it's products through celebrities and notable figures worldwide. One of their largest advertising campaigns features the hit Japanese idol group Us Cracks. The Kiroshi Corporation announced that it was working on new tetrachromatic optic implants. Kiroshi claimed that the new implant would increase the visible spectrum of light.

Products
2020
Type	Products
Optics	Opti-Flash MK.II, Opti-Shield MK.I[5], Kiroshi Laser-Comm Optic[6], Kiroshi Monovision[7], Kiroshi Optics Cyberoptic Interferometry System[6], Kiroshi Optics "Tricoptics™"[6], Kiroshi Nuke 'Em[8]
Optics Options	Kiroshi Dodgeball[5], Kiroshi Video Imager[5], Kiroshi Video Cam/Transmitter[5], Live-Feed Cyberoptic
Equipment	Kiroshi Optics Remote CyberCam 20[9], Kiroshi Optics Heads-Up Display[9]
Interface Plugs	Kiroshi Model 100 Interface Plugs[6]
2045
Type	Products
Cyberware	Kiroshi MonoVision, Kiroshi OptiShield
2077
Type	Products
Optics	Kiroshi Optics Mk.1, Kiroshi Optics Mk.2, Kiroshi Optics Mk.3
Equipment	OS-1 GimletEye
Notes
In CyberGeneration, Kiroshi Optics made Raven Microcybernetics Netglasses program obsolete.[10]
Trivia
Kiroshi is one letter off Karōshi which is spelled "過労死." Which can be translated literally as "overwork death". There is no confirmation that this is what they meant to do.
Kiroshi is also very similar to 着る視 (kiru-shi) which translates literally as "eyes to wear/wearable eyes." Its previous name, Kiro-shiya, is similarly adjacent to 着る視野 (kiru-shiya) which approximately means "wearable vision."

Militech
SIGN IN TO EDIT
2013Icon2020IconCyberGenerationIconV3IconRedIcon2077IconEdgeIcon1
Militech International Armaments
2077
RED
2020
2013
2077
Information
Type
Arms manufacturing
Military vehicle production
Mercenary contracting
Established
1996
restructured some time after 2000
Status
Active
Headquarters
Washington D.C.
Location(s)
See Regional Offices section
Founder(s)
Antonio Luccessi
Leader(s)
Donald Lundee (2020)
Rosalind Myers (2060-2069)
Lucas Harford (2069-2077)
No. of Members
400,000 (2020)
350,000 (700,000 contracted) (2045)
647,000 (2077)
Monetary Value
€$432 billion (2020)
€$1.2 Trillion (2077)
Affiliation(s)
NUSA (Shares Employees, assets, and Capital)
Appearance(s)
Militech continues to be a dominating force in military hardware manufacturing. The corporation continues to flourish and grow.
– Unknown, Corporation Report 2020 Volume 2

Militech International Armaments is a megacorporation specializing in weapons manufacturing and private military contracting. Militech is one of the world's largest manufacturers of weapons and military vehicles, with facilities on every continent.[1]

Militech provides equipment for hundreds of nations as well as both private and governmental organizations, especially the NUSA military and police forces. This equipment includes but is not limited to personal firearms, drones, tanks, aircraft, ships, and Assisted Combat Personal Armor.

An alternate branch of the corporation provides private military forces ostensibly for the purposes of defense, peacekeeping and nation-building missions, however these forces have been used to aid terrorist organizations and military coups in the past.[2]


Contents
1	History
1.1	1997-2020
1.2	Fourth Corporate War - 2023
1.3	2024 - 2045
1.4	2077
1.5	Controversies
2	Main Products
2.1	Small Arms
2.2	Heavy Weapons
2.3	Vehicles
2.4	Accessories
2.5	Special Projects
2.6	Police Services
2.7	Mercenary Troops
3	Public Relations
3.1	Enemies & Allies
3.2	Controversies
4	Resources & Capital
4.1	Corporate Value
4.2	Action Taken
4.3	Material Resources
4.4	Human Resources
4.5	Subsidiaries
5	Regional Offices
6	Notable Employees
7	Database Entry (2077)
8	Key Facilities
8.1	Virginia Headquarters
8.2	Night City Office
8.3	Showrooms
8.4	Small arms Research and Development
8.5	Research and Development
8.6	Weapons Proving Grounds
8.7	Special Projects Department
8.8	Militech Camps & Training Facilities
8.9	Manufacturing Facilities
9	Products
9.1	2020
9.2	2045
9.3	2077
10	Gallery
11	References
History
GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

1997-2020
Founded initially in 1996 by Italian weapons designer Antonio Luccessi as Armatech-Luccessi International, Militech, as it's known today, began its journey with the 1998 trials for a new standardized US Infantry assault weapon.

Despite continued bankruptcy and ongoing recovery from the economic collapse of 1994, the US government decided the time had come to replace the M-16A2. The trials ultimately revealed three finalists: the FN SAP, a cheap but clunky and unreliable weapon, considered mainly due to powerful ties between the company Fabrique International and the US government, as well as its ammunition and parts compatibility with other members of the by then defunct NATO alliance; the Colt AR-17X, a good but expensive weapon; and a submission by newcomer Armatech-Luccessi International, a compact, reliable and moderately priced rifle.

USMC General Donald Lundee, a member of the Joint Chiefs overseeing the trials, was quickly sold on the Armatech system, assessing it as being the best combination of price, reliability, sturdiness and accuracy. Unfortunately, due to the collapse of the US economy and near collapse of the government, the national defense budget had not only tightened but also become insidiously coupled with industry influence that had crept into the political infrastructure and, in spite of General Lundee's protests, the contract for the new US Infantry weapon system went to FN.

In 2003, during the Second South American Conflict, US soldiers had been dying in the thousands equipped with unreliable SAP rifles terribly suited for the tropical climate. Lundee had observed this from afar however, having resigned from the Marine Corps shortly after the trials of 1998 to become the CEO of Armatech, at the request of Luccessi. As a former Pentagon chief, he possessed a profound understanding of the modern military-industrial complex, including the extent to which older military contracting corporations had become incredibly bureaucratically top heavy, often touting shoddy and overpriced products that sold through contractual inertia alone.

Lundee saw an opportunity for streamlined and efficient military manufacturing - producing high quality, modern equipment at competitive prices, with the capability to sell technology in the global market regardless of political convention. This pitch, coupled with Luccessi's brilliance in weapons design, allowed Armatech to acquire the capital needed to propel the company into a period of rapid expansion. Armatech's new world prominence and overt visibility came with a new name, Militech Arms International.

The corporation's first major success came in 2004. Given the disaster represented by the Central American Wars, the US finally scrapped the FN SAP and began new trials for a standardized infantry assault weapon. The resulting choice was the Militech Ronin Light Assault Rifle and, shortly afterwards, Militech also won the military side arm contract, directly resulting in sales of these weapons in vast quantities around the globe to nations and corporations alike. At the same time, Militech had begun development of heavy weapon systems, artillery, armored vehicles and aircraft. This greatly expanded catalogue, coupled with the brand's moderate prices and excellent quality, enabled the company to take on several key contracts, winning them over established defense manufacturers that had operated through and beyond the economic collapse.

By the mid 2010s, Militech was the largest defense contractor in several countries, including the U.S, as well as being utilized by a number of corporations, all of which allowed the company to absorb a number of its now failing competitors in order to incorporate their designers and resources.[2]

However despite great success, Militech suffered from internal problems. While Donald Lundee was never doubted leadership or executive abilities, the board of directors did not see him in a favorable light. Lundee was power hungry and did not hide it, he was determined to make Militech the largest force on Earth. During this time Lundee would often put up the corporation and himself against the Japanese conglomerate Arasaka. This rose tensions between the corporations with many that feared a corporate war could break out, these decisions left the various members of the corporation in disagreement. Even Lundee's friend and ally Colonel Emile Lazarus did not favor this choice of direction.

By 2020, an ex-president of Militech Elizabeth Kress became the president of the United States benefiting the corporation. CEO Donald Lundee became paranoid of those who opposed him, while not having complete control of the company many were loyal to him leading to much internal conflict.

Fourth Corporate War - 2023
Main article: Fourth Corporate War
In 2021, during the escalation of conflict between rival aquacorps CINO and OTEC, Militech's defense forces were contracted as supplementary support for OTEC's security forces, as well as to provide advisors, weapons and supplies.[3] Initially, Militech's ambitions in this conflict were not to directly engage in combat with Arasaka, but to advertise and demonstrate the efficacy of their defense services in the world market. However to Donald Lundee it was a matter of pride to defeat the Japanese, and Saburo Arasaka. By the end of 2021, both OTEC and CINO were engaged in naval warfare, both above and below the surface, as Arasaka and Militech moved into position and conducted early covert operations.[4]

Lundee considered Militech to be at war, and being a soldier for much of his life, could only view Militech's victory as Arasaka's utter defeat.[3] The "Ocean War" between CINO and OTEC officially ended in February of 2022 with a peace accord signed on the 27th of that month. Only 7 days later on March 6th, Arasaka conducted a live trial of the newly completed Soulkiller 2.5, capturing the engram of a Militech executive, the interrogation of whom led to an Arasaka strike on Militech's Night City offices.[3]

During the fall of 2022, following worldwide conflict and warring overspill from the corporate conflict, governments began reigning in the two megacorporations. Southern California and Texas in the U.S consequently opted to nationalize Arasaka and Militech facilities, with the EEC threatening to follow suit if tensions failed to diminish.[3] Shortly after, the war reached a turning point when Arasaka forces invaded a Militech showroom in Italy, causing the EEC to make good on their promise, seizing assets owned by both corporations throughout Europe. Japan followed the EEC, nationalizing Arasaka assets within its borders and its surrounding territories.[3]

On August 20th, 2023, a Militech strike team, including infamous characters Johnny Silverhand, Rogue, Spider Murphy, and Shaitan, entered Arasaka Tower from its rooftop and deployed a small nuclear weapon within Saburo's office. The violent blast resulted in the complete destruction of the tower, with ejected debris precipitating widespread destruction to the surrounding city. 12,000 people were killed within Corporate Center, with half a million people dying as a direct result of the weapon's detonation, with a further quarter million dying in the hours and days after.[5]

2024 - 2045
The New United States, led by President Elizabeth Kress declared martial law in the parts of the country still under their control. She blamed Arasaka for the mini nuke detonated in Night City, but rumors persisted that Militech had funded the strike team and supplied them with the portable nuclear device. Kress despite the public demands to hold Militech responsible, never addressed the concerns. Instead she nationalized Militech, and used them to strengthen their federal rule. Some of the most prominent and exonerated Militech officials were offered lucrative positions in the re-formed NUS Department of Defense. This didn't go over well with Militech's hotheaded and proud CEO, Donald Lundee.[4]

Even as the Megacorp labored under control from Washington, D.C. as a nationalized Corporate asset, Militech secretly was rebuilding back to its former role as a combination of arms manufacturer and mercenary army. Despite heavy wartime losses, Militech remained one of world's largest producer and seller of all manner of military weapons. As well as a major military supplier to what was the re-uniting New United States, as well as being it's largest customer. Donald Lundee remained in power and one of the most influential people on the Board of Directors.[4] However he didn't own enough stock to control the Corporation, his force of personality, allies, and success record had kept him on top despite internal struggles.

Over the years, Lundee set himself and Militech up against Arasaka so often and for so long that he became personally involved, making it a matter of pride to defeat the Japanese and their attempt to take over the global arms market, for he had also made it his goal to do so. Due to his arrogance and aggressive demeanor, Lundee had made more enemies than friends.[4] That very same temper and arrogance that resulted in a dogged determination to see the war through to the bitter end, only brought to heel by President Kress' reactivation of his commission, and her command to cease hostilities.

2077
In 2077, Militech still maintained the title of one of the largest manufacturers of weapons and military vehicles in the world. They've worked closely with American military and police agencies for decades, providing high-grade weaponry and training.[6] After nationalization of Militech, the NUSA used its assets to strengthen the collapsing power of the country. The corporation had since regained some of its independence, and several of its board members still held high-ranking offices in the Ministry of Defense.[1] Due to the efforts of ex-Militech employees, the NUSA was responsible for over 60% of the corporation's contracts.[7]

During this time Militech produced and released the Corporate Wars: The Musical movie which saw mixed reviews with many praising the film for its story and musical numbers. Others criticized movie for its melodramatic plot and propaganda.[7]

In Night City, Militech was also considered the second biggest and best corporation to work for, in part due to giving its employees up to 50% discounts on all Militech weapons.[8]

President Rosalind Myers announced that she'd be seeking another term as president, though many protested her running again. She was the previous CEO of the Militech Corporation, and with many members of the board being higher ups in the Pentagon, the NUSA and Militech interests and assets were largely one and the same. Many people wished to oppose Militech's control over the NUSA. Washington, D.C. serves as Militech's largest consumer, and should the capital ever run out of money, the corporation would risk losing everything. Militech announced plans to construct a new colony on Mars, and began selling residential modules.[7]

Controversies
Militech is often accused of taking part in ethically shady or blatantly illegal black ops, such as hiring out their private military to support revolutions, military coups, assassinations, terrorist attacks, and ethnic cleansings. The company was also suspected of planting and detonating the nuclear bomb in Arasaka's Night City headquarters in 2023, though no evidence has ever validated those claims.[1]

In 2077, Militech has been caught massacring innocent citizens of the NUSA. 75% of the victims of the massacres had been identified as Japanese. Along with much evidence towards the corporation, many have suspected Militech to be against foreign influence in the country. For decades the Presidents of the NUSA have been previous higher ups or even CEO of the Megacorporation which has led to Militech gaining much support from the government. Citizens of the NUSA have fought against the hold Militech has had on the country, however no success has been seen.

Main Products
Militech's a weapons manufacturer, Militech products are sold in varying volumes to eighty-two countries and over 250 corporations, not to mention millions upon millions of individuals, groups, gangs and small companies around the world.

Small Arms
The Militech products that are most visible to the man on the street are its small arms. Militech sells more pistols, rifles and sub-machine guns than any other single manufacturer in the world. Bulk shipments are bought by national and corporate armies, police departments, militias, security groups and so on. Individual weapons are sold over the counter by hundreds of thousands of dealers. Militech's high sales are due in part to a hard won reputation for producing a tough, reliable and accurate products at a reasonable price. On top of that, sizable discounts are available to bulk purchasers. The Militech Ronin is still the top selling assault rifle in the world, several years after its release. Part of this is due to the U.S. Army contract, but much of it is due to strong private sales.

Another factor is the huge selection available. Among Militech's small arms products are small, derringer type weapons, special load revolvers, hundreds of the best pistol, rifle and sub-machinegun models in the world, sporting arms, special purpose weapons such as long range sniping rifles, squad automatic weapons, full size machine guns, and shotguns. Each model has options. This means that any small arms needs you may have can be filled by one company. This is an advantage to bulk contractors, like armies and corporations, who would prefer to have to deal with only one maintenance and resupply contract.[2]

Heavy Weapons
There are four main departments of heavy weapons manufacture: Airborne Delivery Systems, Non-Projectile Ordinance, Artillery and Heavy Projectile Systems and Light Projectile Systems. Within the company, these departments are known by their initials, ADS, NPO, AHPS and LPS. Airborne delivery specializes in missiles and bombs. They design and manufacture Militech's extensive line of air to air, surface to air and surface to surface missiles, also unguided rockets, and general and special purpose bombs of several varieties. Non-Projectile Ordinance is the department responsible for research, development and manufacture of things like land-mines, grenades, satchel charges, demolitions packages, and specialized explosives such as liquids, gels, plastiques, micro-caps and det-cords. This department also produces the explosives used by Airborne Delivery in their warheads. Artillery is just what it says. They design and produce both the guns themselves and the shells that they fire, again using Non-Projectile Ordinance's explosives. Artillery's products include everything from super-long range weapons to light mortars, grenade launchers, and man-portable antiarmor rockets. They also make the heavy guns that mount on top of tanks, armored cars, and some armored personnel carrier chassis. Light Projectile Weapons makes such things as twenty and thirty millimeter cannons, vulcan-type multi-barrel machine guns, and other heavy machine guns. Many of these weapons find their way atop armored vehicles with Artillery's products, or into aircraft.[2]

Vehicles
Although many components of Militech's vehicles are subcontracted, their catalog includes light wheeled vehicles, armored personnel carriers, armored cars, tanks, armored hovercraft, small boats and sub-marines, large ships, vectored thrust aircraft, and true jet aircraft. Many of these products are manufactured under the name of subsidiary firms, but it usually doesn't take much searching to find the "A Militech Company" caption somewhere near their logo. Many of these companies were former competitors that Militech hammered into financial oblivion and bought during its period of rapid expansion in the early 2010s.

Militech branded vehicles are sold mostly to nations and corporations. There are, however, a few extremely wealthy individuals out there whose private security troops have some Militech armored cars or vectored-thrust attack craft at their disposal.[2]

Accessories
Militech markets a variety of military and paramilitary accessories, and this group of products accounts for much of the corporation's sales to private individuals. Many products in the diverse accessory line are appealing to people who have no need for firepower and no interest in military items also sell in large numbers to the same people and organizations who purchase weapons systems. The wide demographic appeal of the accessories makes them second only in small arms in terms of sales volume for Militech.

Naturally, there are also thousands of other items in the Militech accessory catalogue, including body armor, clothing, field rations, knives, weapons accessories, vehicular accessories, books and information disks, security equipment, exotic melee and ranged weapons, survival equipment and so on. These items are sold at showrooms, and available through mail order from catalogs available on hyperstack disk or in print.[2]

Special Projects
Militech has highly secretive research and development facilities where work on potentially profitable new weapons and accessory systems is carried out. These facilities are also the site of what are known within the corporation as Special Projects. The Special Projects Department is the group responsible for the development of those ideas considered too exotic, sensitive, potentially dangerous, or PR. damaging for regular development channels. All security around Special Projects people and development sites is fearsome, with only the most trusted and experienced of troops and security agents being used. The threat of extraction or corporate espionage against the Special Projects Department is so high that Militech has been known to order the assassination of some of its own lower executives who have been accidentally exposed to sensitive SPD data.

The Special Projects Department's programs had been rumored to include the genetic and biochemical alteration of human beings and animals to produce more durable battlefield soldiers and guard animals, second generation combat drugs that can provide the desired effects without burning out the soldier or producing messy addictions, short-term biological agents that can sterilize a large area and then revert to harmless states within hours or minutes, refined ballistic body armors that can stop high energy projectiles and then dissipate the kinetic energy so that the wearer doesn't suffer the crushing impact of a non-penetrating bullet; tiny, cybernetically controlled assassination robots, and satellite and portable battlefield model high energy beam weapons for anti-ship and armor use.[2]

Police Services
Militech contracts police services to cities around the world. Militech's police services department is smaller than that of its rival, Arasaka, however it is much more common in the United States than Arasaka's police group. Although Arasaka does contract police services in several U.S. cities, because of the competition Militech has be unable to contract any of it's services in Japan and other areas in Asia and Europe. Militech has attempted to become more accessible to these nations, however it has been made increasingly difficult.[2]

Mercenary Troops
Militech maintains a large standing army by most corporate standards and hires its troops out as a service to their corporations, nations and wealthy individuals. Militech's mercenaries are neither as specialized as Arasaka's primarily security-oriented troops nor as diverse as the Lazarus Group's variety of multi-purpose soldiers and agents. Except in special situations, Militech hires out only all-purpose, line soldiers. They are competent troops, trained for a variety of special situations, including airborne, amphibious and all-terrain operations, but they are not special forces soldiers, and they lack the experience necessary for most special ops or super-specialized missions. Militech has no shortage of specialized troops, but it retains them for its own use. Militech's soldiers are generally contracted out to corporations or nations for basic infantry reinforcement in urban or field situations. Force sizes range from a one hundred man minimum to a ten thousand man maximum, depending on availability. Anyone requiring specialized troops or troops in greater or lesser numbers than those offered by Militech is referred to the Lazarus group.

Militech has been known to let other companies or nations use its special ops troops, but this typically happens only when the corporation has something other than contract money to gain from the operation. For instance, Militech would lease special ops troops to a smaller company who wanted to attempt an espionage mission, but only if that mission would damage a Militech competitor or lead to an increase in business for one of Militech's departments. Alternatively, Militech has been known to let small companies use its special ops troops to steal secrets that it has wanted for itself. The corporation has then taken over the smaller company and absorbed all its assets and data. This method has the advantage of divorcing the corporation one step from any blame for the operation, but it is usually only employed when Militech was already planning a buyout of the smaller company.

Public Relations
The Militech Corporation has struggled with public relations since it's inception as a Megacorporation. Militech is often seen as a reliable corporation for supplies and weapons alike, however the corporation itself is seen as a danger especially within the NUSA. Over the decades the corporation has had it's control over the NUSA and uses much of it's resources and capital to benefit themselves for expansion. However the board of directors have attempted to change this image of the corporation by supplying the police and army with much needed defensive arsenal, as well as contracting it's forces to stabilize and secure the NUSA from the threat of nomad clans. Militech has also been responsible for sponsoring shows and providing cyberware or computer components to people who require them. At the same time Militech uses it's influence to bring a negative agenda and propaganda towards foreign influences, mainly Asian or European influences.

Enemies & Allies
In 2020, Lundee's envy of the Arasaka chief and the Arasaka Corporation in general, was widely known. Many experts expected the regular scraps between Militech and Arasaka to explode into full scale war some-time before 2030. This prediction was soon seen in the Fourth Corporate War.

Militech's attempts to monopolize the arms industry have made it the natural enemy of many other arms companies, as well as that of several larger corporations that have weapons manufacturing subsidiaries. Among the more vociferous and troublesome of Militech's weapons industry enemies were independents Sternmeyer Waffenfabrik SA and Federated Arms. Larger corporations that Militech had tensions with were Schumann-Stein and IEC conglomerates.

During the 2010s, Militech's closest corporate ally was the Lazarus Group. In addition, Colonel Emile Lazarus and General Lundee knew each other from their days in the military and are personal friends. However, Col. Lazarus disagreed with his friends antagonistic views of Arasaka, and disliked the shift in Lundees thinking, away from the pursuit of military excellence, and toward the fulfillment of personal power goals.

Militech had managed to irritate several national governments around the world, mostly because it supplies their enemies, but none of those small countries have the power to cause Militech much trouble beyond their borders. Militech's closest national ally is the NUSA. As far as international influence goes that's strictly a zero, since, following the Collapse, the phrase "American International Power" is widely considered oxymoronic.[2]

Controversies
Militech is often accused of taking part in ethically shady or blatantly illegal black ops, such as hiring out their private military to support revolutions, military coups, assassinations, terrorist attacks, and ethnic cleansings. The company was also suspected of planting and detonating the nuclear bomb in Arasaka's Night City headquarters in 2023, though no evidence has ever validated those claims.[1]

In 2077, Militech has been caught massacring innocent citizens of the NUSA. 75% of the victims of the massacres had been identified as Japanese. Along with much evidence towards the corporation, many have suspected Militech to be against foreign influence in the country. For decades the Presidents of the NUSA have been previous higher ups or even CEO of the Megacorporation which has led to Militech gaining much support from the government. Citizens of the NUSA have fought against the hold Militech has had on the country, however no success has been seen.

Militech has also been shown to disregard veterans of their corp military after they retire, these veterans were often discovered without proper medication or were even massacred by Militech themselves. These massacres had also lend to a poor relationship with the various nomads within the NUSA.

Resources & Capital
Militech is one of the Big-Ten corporations in the world—number six to be exact. The corporation's diverse line of products, its wide ranging subsidiaries, and the huge 2020 market for weapons and military accessories all contribute to its success. Analysts have projected continued growth for Militech over the next several years, and it is no secret that the board of directors is eyeing a spot in the top five. That would put Militech in the company of other megacorps as EBM, Arasaka, International Electric and so on.

Corporate Value
In 2020, Militech's total value in assets and holdings was €$432 billion, putting it only €$50 billion behind number one, Euro Business Machines, and €$43 billion behind the corporation's main competitor, Arasaka. Militech's €$432 billion worth was divided among a variety of assets and holdings. Unlike some other large corporations, Militech has no bank attached to it, and couldn't count outstanding loans and interest toward its assets. Yet, it does have prodigious annual sales, and the profit value of those contracts and sales are considered part of the corporation's worth.[2] After Militech was nationalized by the NUSA, made possible from ex-employee Elizabeth Kress, the corporation shared it's monetary value with the country. This raised Militech's assets and holdings to €$1.2 trillion.[7]

Action Taken
Militech is a public corporation with 430 million shares of common stock on the world market. Donald Lundee had claimed ownership of 8%. Roland Yee and the board of directors lay claim to another 22%. Considering these numbers, it seemed that there is a controlling amount of Militech stock that could become the target of a lever-aged group acquisition. Several large corporations will form a temporary alliance to perpetrate a leveraged buyout and hostile take-over of a mutual enemy. The unlucky target corporation will then see its assets broken up and divided among the raiders. Frequently, fighting breaks out among the "allied" corporations over who gets to absorb certain desirable parts of the target corporation, but its usually happens too late for the breakdown to be of any use to the victim.[2]

Material Resources
This is Militech's big advantage over many of its competitors. As it is an arms manufacturer, its corporate army is better equipped than most others, with a high volume of state of the art weaponry, vehicles and accessories. This has helped Militech to hold its own militarily against its well armed nemesis, Arasaka.[2]

Human Resources
Militech and its subsidiaries employee about 680,000 people worldwide. Of these, 300,000 work directly under the Militech name, and 100,000 of those are corporate troops. Of Militech's 100,000 troops, a maximum of 80% may be used for contract work at any given time, and 20% are retained full time for corporate defense. Typically, only 50% are hired out at any one time. 90%of the troops are standard guards, line soldiers and specialists (pilots, artillery gunners, etc.), 10% are special ops troops, solos and agents who are never subcontracted out, but retained for Militech's personal use.[2]

Subsidiaries
The Militech International Armaments Corporation core companies are Militech Technologies (the main weapons arm), Militech Military Contracting (mercenaries), and Militech International (holding). These represent the greatest share of Militech's sales and business and are the branches that own and manage the network of smaller subsidiary companies.

Just a few Militech subsidiaries include: Militech Technologies, Militech Military Contracting, Militech International, Militech America, Militech EEC, Militech Asia, Militech Personnel Services, Militech Police Services, Militech Heavy Industries, Militech Computers Inc., Militech Avionics Inc., Combat Fashion Inc., Militech Showrooms Inc., Militech International Shipping, Militech Maritime Construction Inc (shipyards), Militech Cybernetics International, Militech Aerospace Inc., Allisson Field Artillery Systems, Kunoshita Chipware, Kwikee Stop (convenience stores), Chouinard Electrodyne International, Klemperer Photo-Optical Systems, and Speedy Eddy's Pizza Restaurants.[2]

Regional Offices
Militech regional offices can range in size from towers comparable to their Rosslyn headquarters to smaller one room offices staffed by a signal representative. Most major cities have a fair sized Militech office building for the handling of local distribution, management and contract sales, and at least one or two showrooms for retail sales. Regional offices handle all local bulk arms contracts, mercenary contracting, distribution, and other paperwork. Regional offices also contain the headquarters for the local ranking Militech Officer. This individual, with his other staff, is responsible for overseeing and coordinating all local military endeavors and black operations. They answer directly to the district operations coordinator back in Rosslyn. Major Militech regional offices can be found in New York City, Chicago, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Night City, Mexico City, Rio De Janiero, Bogota, Tokyo, Beijing, London, Berlin, Moscow, Paris, Rome, Stockholm, Cairo and Nairobi. Smaller offices can be located worldwide as well as showrooms containing their products.

Notable Employees
Main article: List of Militech employees
Database Entry (2077)
MILITECH
Militech
Militech International Armaments is one of the largest, most powerful corporations in the world. Known mainly in the NUSA for their support of the federal government, they provide both manpower and arms to the regime, including weapons and specialist military gear. Militech's contract for the NUSA is controversial in some political circles: Militech has been accused of attempting to create a monopoly, while the clear connections between former Militech CEO and current NUSA president Rosalind Myers and the corporation's board have only exacerbated corporate and diplomatic tensions.

Militech also operates in the private sector, providing security as well as defensive and offensive combat services. The corporation offers clients the latest equipment, skilled staff and trained, well-equipped agents to get the job done. In addition, the megacorp also develops and produces its own firearms, drones, implants, even vehicles suitable for land, air and sea combat.[9]

Key Facilities
Militechhq
The Militech Corporate Headquarters Tower in Rosslyn, Virginia

Virginia Headquarters
Across the Potomac from Washington D.C., located just a few hundred meters from the HQ of the Lazarus Group, standing eighty-two stories tall and taking up an entire city block the Militech Tower is the centre of US and global operations for the arms manufacturing megacorporation.

The Tower's architecture can be best described as unimaginative: a square tower that goes straight up for eighty-two stories with the only piece of stylistic design being the all-around cantilever on the ground floor, other than that concrete columns rise from the ground to support the edge of the fourth floor where the cantilever begins with a forty foot high glass wall with steel supporting members standing behind the columns and rings the bottom three stories around the base of the tower. Unlike the Lazarus or Arasaka buildings Militech does not have a concourse or plaza surrounding its headquarters with it instead connecting directly to the rather large side walk that wraps around the whole building.

As for the interior the first three floors are open to the public and designed as airy galleries with the ground floor having large green areas filled with exotic plants and criss-crossed with small ponds and streams with small all designed to hide the extensive security systems dotted through the ground floor. The second floor is a large showroom where Militech products are displayed and has plenty of helpful sales agents for potential customers. Finally the third floor contains and open air cafeteria and restaurant as well as a small military technology museum and offices for recruiting and sales staff.

Beyond the public spaces the Tower also houses an infirmary in an underground area, auditoriums, R&D facilities, firing range, conference centres, communication hubs, machine shop/fabrication center, offices, short stay rooms, luxury suites, and no less that four full-scale world situation/war rooms which the company uses not so much for running wars, as for keeping tabs on other people's wars for marketing and research reasons.[2]

Night City Office
Main article: Militech Offices (disambiguation)
Showrooms
When your average citizen thinks of Militech, the showroom is what he or she is most likely to recall. Everyone who lives in or near a major city has been in, or at least seen, a Militech showroom. Located in corporate areas or commercial malls, showrooms are how Militech sells its products to the general population. Depending on the location and typical clientele the showrooms can range from glitzy, rock pumping, teen oriented affairs offering polymer one shots and personal accessories and defense systems to quiet, elegant, civilized complexes where wealthy executives and high class solos receive personal demonstrations of the most up to date and exclusive systems. These are extremes, however, and the typical downtown showroom is designed to cater to all prospective clients, offering a little of each world to shoppers.

Although some showrooms, such as the suburban mall variety, are small, and offer only small arms and personal accessories, most of the downtown ones are quite large, occupying several rooms, and sometimes multiple stories in their host buildings. They will have a courteous sales staff trained in the use of the products they sell, and, of course, a contingent of soldiers and guards on hand to fill the multiple roles of security and demonstration. On hand will be a stock of the latest models of those Militech weapons and accessories which are legal for sale to the public or to solos with special permits. For executives and representatives of police departments and other potential large-scale clients there will be demo tapes and chips of military and paramilitary grade weapons.

Sometimes there will be tanks, AVs, or other vehicles parked on the showroom floor like in an auto dealership. Although the vehicles are there for display purposes they are always combat ready, and can be brought into service within minutes. The Night City downtown showroom currently has two of the brand new, evil-looking AVX Viper assault aerodynes on display. These have not only attracted representatives of several local corporations for a look, but many casual shoppers have peeked in to get a gander at the exotic looking craft and left with some item for their home or personal defense collection. Shoppers can try their hand on an AVX simulator, and there are AVX T-shirts and lollipops for the kiddies. There is always a crowd at the large showrooms. All shoppers should be advised, however, that shoplifters will be prosecuted, if they live long enough to make it to court.

Besides functioning as retail outlets, showrooms also serve as recruiting stations, and any promising youngster or solo who wants to try his or her hand with the Militech Corporate forces is welcome to come on down for a personal interview, no appointment necessary.[2]

Small arms Research and Development
Located near the town of Laconia, New Hampshire, is the Small arms R&D program where Militech tests all of its small arms models as well those of their competition. The site of the old Armatech offices the six buildings and two firing ranges that make up the facility are for designing and testing only, with only one building housing the machine shops and fabrication areas needed for creating prototypes and test models.

The Small Arms facility is not designed for full scale production, only design and testing. One building contains machine shops and fabrication areas, but they are sufficient only for producing prototypes and test models. Once a product has been approved for mass production and ordered by Militech or a corporate client the design specs are sent to the Militech small arms factories in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania or Albstadt, Germany.[2]

Research and Development
Militech's primary research facility is located near Norfolk, Virginia, compared to the more specialised locations across the globe the general R&D facility in Virginia serves as a catch-all for those programs that don't fit in with any of the specific departments, but that are not heavy enough to fall under the jurisdiction of the Special Projects Department. This site itself has two large scale fabrication facilities and warehouses for the construction and storage of large scale projects that would otherwise tax the capabilities of the regional offices. The R&D department also makes up a large part of the industrial park on the outskirts of Norfolk containing large scale manufacturing areas, warehouses, offices and extensive security.[2]

Weapons Proving Grounds
Located deep in the heart of New Mexico, south of route 42 and wedged between highways 54 and 285 is Militech's Proving Grounds, 5000 square kilometres of scrub and desert where the corporation tests its new weapons and equipment. Known within the company as "The Garden" the site itself occupies a rectangular area approximately 50 kilometres wide and 100 kilometres long and encompasses several types of terrain from hills to canyons and included facilities such as an airfield, administration building, warehouses, fabrication areas, barracks, executive residences, corporate village and research labs. With millions of eurodollars worth of equipment tested at the Proving Grounds security is extremely extensive will remote sensor and counter-intrusion systems littered throughout the grounds, a constantly monitored and hot-wired perimeter fence and even Militech DIS-5 satellites in geosynchronous orbit constantly monitoring the site.[2]

Special Projects Department
Three kilometres from the Proving Grounds corporate village is solitary, squat building with tinted windows and a featureless grey paint job, this is the location of the Special Projects Department where Militech's most advanced research takes place. Extending ten stories below ground the SPD is bristling with defence systems and houses biomedical, computer and chemistry labs, a sophisticated fabrication area, research surgery O.R.s, testing areas, and living facilities for up to 200 personnel.[2]

Militech Camps & Training Facilities
Militech maintains a standing army of over 100,000 troops. Usually, 40-50,000 of these are on lease to corporations or governments around the world. The remainder either live on their own, at Militech postings, or they live at one of Militech's combination training camp/troop barrack facilities. Militech has the provisions to barrack about 50% of its troops at any given time. If less than 40,000 troops are out on contract at any time, the overflow live on call. Militech has seven large camps; each can support about 7,000 troops. The camps are located around the world, each in an area which offers unique training opportunities. The artillery/armor/flight training is at Camp Patton, Texas. Swamp/jungle training is at Camp Jackson, in southern Florida. Mountain/snow training is at Camp Whitmore, in California's Sierra Nevada mountains. Underwater/maritime training is at Concord Station, Connecticut, near the Militech Shipyards. Special forces/special-ops training is at the highly secret Camp Raney, Georgia. In addition, there are Militech Camps in England and Japan, giving access to the European and Asian theaters. All camps do basic infantry training and recruitment and have tight security. Facilities at the Militech camps always include an airfield, barracks, recreation areas, training areas and a large complement of artillery, armor and aircraft.[2]

Manufacturing Facilities
Militech and its subsidiaries have manufacturing plants in several countries. A few of the more important ones are the Aircraft shops in San Diego, California, the Shipyards in New London, Connecticut, the Vehicle Factories in San Jose, California, the Cyberware/ Computer/Accessory plant in Night City, the Ordinance plants in Manila, New Philippines and Amsterdam, Holland, and the small arms factories in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Albstadt, Germany.[2]

Products
2020
Type	Products
Pistols	Militech Arms Avenger[10][11][12][13], Militech Black Widow Flechette Pistol[11][14], Militech Silver Shadow Flechette Pistol[11][14], Militech Electronics Taser[12][15]
Submachine gun	Militech Viper Submachinegun[13][16][17], Militech 10 Submachine Gun[16][18], Militech Cap-Laser "Pistol", Militech Mini-Gat Machine Carbine[19][20], Militech UAW Speargun[21]
Shotguns	Militech Bulldog Compact Assault Shotgun[22][23], Militech Crusher[24], Militech Military/Police Shotgun[23][25]
Assault Rifles	Militech Mk IV Assault Weapon (Revised), Militech Dragon Light Assault Weapon, Militech M-31a1 Advanced Infantry Combat Weapon, Militech Ronin Light Assault, Militech High Power 15, Militech Ninja, Militech XR-1 MAG- PULSE Gun, Militech Mark V Assault Rifle, Militech Electronics LaserCannon, Militech Cyborg Rifle
Heavy weapons	Militech Renegade Squad Automatic Weapon, Militech "Cowboy" U-55 Grenade Launcher, Militech M-232 Squad Assault/Automatic Weapon, Militech MTL-1 "Manhunter", Militech AM-3 "Anti-Matter Rifle", Militech RRCR "Archer" Machine-Rifle, Militech Urban Missile Launcher, Militech BMFG 30mm "Plasma Cannon", Militech Backpack Mortar, Militech Mini-Grenade Launcher, Militech MAN-PACK Artillery Rocket, Militech Hotshot L-ATGM, Militech 25mm Pistol Grenades, Militech 20L Autocannon, Militech "Sure-Shot" All Purpose Missile, Militech "4-Pack" Missile Pack Launcher, Militech PDU-3 Multi-Purpose Perimeter Defense Unit, Militech Scorpion 16 Surface-To-Air Missile, Militech RPG-A Grenade Launcher
Others	Militech Electronics Taser II™, Militech 25mm Launched Grenades
Wheeled Vehicles	Militech Commando
Aerodyne	Militech AVX-9C, Militech A-20 ACAV, ATF-37B Thunderhawk
Helicopters	
Tank	Militech MT-4 MBT, Militech Behemoth APC
Equipment	Militech M-78 Revised Personal Armor, Militech M-88 Revised Combat Helmet, Militech Refractix Plus Binoculars, Militech Second Chance Cyberdoc Implanted Emergency Medkit, Militech Personal Tactical Computer/Global Positioning System, Militech M96 "Ghostsuit", Militech M73 "Mirage Gear"
Full Body Conversion	Militech Eclipse, Militech Enforcer
2045
Type	Products
Pistols	Militech Crusher, Militech "Avenger", Militech "Boomer Buster", Militech Fox Dual Ammo Pistol, Militech Perseus
Shotguns	Militech "Bulldog", Militech Aegis
Assault Rifles	Militech "Ronin", Militech "Dragon"
Sniper Rifles	Militech Catalyst
Submachine Guns	Militech "Mini-Gat", Militech "Viper"
Rocket Launchers	Militech "Urban", Militech "Hotshot", Militech Archimedes
Grenade Launchers	Militech "Mini-Grenade", Militech "Cowboy" U-56 Grenade Launcher
Combination Weapons	Militech Mastiff SMG
Vehicles	Militech Gorgon Security Van
Equipment	Militech Tactical Umbrella
2077
Type	Products
Precision Rifles	Militech M-179 Achilles
Pistols	Militech M-10AF Lexington, Militech M-76e Omaha
Submachineguns	Militech M221 Saratoga
Shotguns	Militech Crusher
Assault Rifles	Militech M251s Ajax
Heavy Machine Guns	Militech Mk. 31 HMG
Grenades	CHAR Incendiary Grenade (Homing, Sticky), X-22 Flashbang Grenade (Homing)
Vehicles	Militech Basilisk, Militech Behemoth, Militech Manticore
Cyberware	Militech Berserk Mk.5, Militech Paraline, Militech "Falcon" Sandevistan Mk.5, Militech Svalinn 9-F Thermaskin, Maneuvering System, Militech Dropner 5X Cyberarm[26]
Equipment	Militech Centaur, CQO Mk.72 Kanone MINI, Mk.2x Grandstand, Mk. 8 ClearVue, HPO Mk.77 Kanone MAX, CS-1 Taipan, RC-7 Varkolak, RC-7 Babaroga
Miscellaneous	Militech PDU-5 Mine, Militech Aegis X2, Militech Incendiary Round

Night Corporation[3] (commonly stylized as Night Corp) is headquartered in Night City. Night Corp is a very unique corporation as it puts its full attention on Night City and its affairs. The company is the largest contractor of public procurements within the boundaries of the city, building and renovating facilities such as roads, bridges, tunnels, metro lines, power plants, net transmitters, waterworks, and sewerage. Night Corp is also known for their charities designed to aid the poor children of Night City, and scholarship programs to benefit gifted youth - Jefferson Peralez was among them. The company is also heavily invested in research for ecology and alternate power sources.[2]

Originally founded by Richard Night as Night International[1][4] (or Night Industries[5]), it was later restructured into Night's Foundation in 1999 by Richard's wife and widow Miriam Night, and later again into Night Corporation.[2]


Contents
1	History
1.1	1990s - 2020
1.2	2020 - 2060s
1.3	2070s
2	Database Entry (2077)
3	Behind the scenes
4	Notes
5	Gallery
6	References
History
1990s - 2020
Richard Night founded Night International during the early 1990s to gain the resources to create his utopian dream of Coronado City, which would later be known as Night City.[1] After his death in 1998, his wife Miriam Night restructured the company and founded Night's Foundation. The company's official primary goal was to protect and promote Richard Night's vision of the perfect city.[2]

During the infamous Mob War set between 2009 and 2011, years after Night's death, the foundation attempted to gain megacorporate support to end the reign of crime in the city, but to no avail. After the conflict, Night's Foundation was restructured, returning to its corporate roots, and renamed Night Corporation - Night Corp for short. Allegedly, Miriam realized that to have any power in the city, you have to play by the rules of big businesses to get ahead. Since then, the corporation remained a constant presence in Night City, expanding their field of activity but avoiding power struggles with other major corporations. Although Miriam stepped down from the role of CEO long before, her legacy and ideals were upheld by her successors.[2]

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

2020 - 2060s
After the AHQ Disaster in 2023, Night Corp offered generous pay and free cyberware and biomonitor upgrades to anyone willing to help clean up the crater of radioactive rubble at ground zero. Both the corporation and the City Council claimed that casualties were kept to a minimum, while at the same time they didn't provide official statistics to substantiate said claim. Nevertheless, they have never been under pressure to release such documents since - after all - most rescue, engineering, and rubble cleanup teams were not local Night Citizens, but nomads, especially from the Aldecaldo nation.[6]

In 2030, Night Corp gave a grant to the recently founded Ziggurat corporation in order to help them transform the old fiber-optic Data Term network into a new system - creating one of the first CitiNets and Data Pools in the world - and restore cheap and reliable communication across NC.[5]

In 2068, NCART was bought out by Night Corp after an incident in which unknown attackers released poison gas in the subway stations across Night City, leading to prolonged riots and NCART's bankruptcy.[7]

2070s
By 2077, Night Corp was nominated as the fifth biggest and best corporation to work for in Night City, due to an announcement of reducing mandatory workweek hours to 80.[8] The company is leader in providing top-tier investment opportunities,[3] and are sponsoring the NC Corsairs football team, giving them exclusive rights to cyberware equipment designed in the company's top-secret "Football Science Lab."[9]

At the time, Night Corp has finalized their conceptual engineering efforts with the aim of revitalizing the maglev system in Night City, which will one day connect Corpo Plaza with the NUSA's East Coast. The corporation began to repair sections of the old network, as well as drilling a new tunnel beneath the city foundations from its construction site on the north east. Construction is expected to finish in 2078, with the first connections operational by the end of said year, and with the city of Chicago by 2080.[3]

Around this time, Sandra Dorsett - an employee of the corporation - stole information from Night Corp on a databank, which was something Sandra wished to expose to the public. The databank itself contained the information on tests the corporation had conducted using an AI to condition its own employees. The AI was designed to control not just their workers, but other figures Night Corp deemed useful to them.[10]

Database Entry (2077)
NIGHT CORPORATION
Night Corporation
If there's one thing Night Corp is known for, it's secrecy – nobody really knows how much the corporation is worth, what its main source of revenue is, nor how many people it employs.

The corporation is part Richard Night's legacy, the visionary industrialist who laid the bedrock of Night City. It was founded by Night's widow, Miriam, who used the money her late husband left behind to build it from the ground up and structure it around Night's ideals and principles . For many years, Miriam was the CEO of Night Corp before the helm was taken over by much less competent figures, who ultimately lost the race with Arasaka and Militech – both of whom ultimately came to wield the most power in Night City. Now, Night Corp's glory days are long behind it. After years of progressive degeneration, Night Corp's influence waned to nearly non-existent. Still, outside of managing its own capital, Night's successors have maintained a significant say in matters pertaining to public administration and pro-social causes. Public road works, construction and conserving institutions for the public good, revitalizing the Maglev system – these are only a handful of projects financed by Night Corp.

More well-known beneficiaries include the NCPD and MaxTac, which are still partly financed by the Night Corp's shrinking coffers. It seems there are still those in the company's rather mysterious structure who have not lost faith in the vision of the city's founder. Even if cheapened by corporate slogans and guided primarily by politcal interests, the merits of Night Corp's role in the Free City's history cannot be diminished. In fact, with this in mind, some residents have expressed they wish for the day Night Corp returns to a position of true power

Petrochemical Associates International is a megacorporation whose primary focus is the petrochemical industry. Petrochem is the world's largest producer of the synthetic alcohol fuel CHOOH2 (under license from Biotechnica), the primary fuel source for the mid-21st century. Petrochem control millions of acres of arable land across the NUSA. They are also one of the world's largest oil producers next to SovOil. With the oil supply dwindling, most remaining fossil fuels are used to make plastics and other synthetics, and Petrochem has more fertile oilfields than any other company. All of these assets are huge, and accordingly hard to protect from other companies that would like to usurp Petrochem's wealth.[1][2]


Contents
1	History
1.1	2000s
1.2	2010
1.3	2020
1.4	2045
1.5	2077
2	Database Entry (2077)
3	Products
3.1	CHOOH2
3.2	Farms and Refineries
3.3	CHOOH2 Technology
3.4	Oil
3.5	PetroChemicals
3.6	General Chemistry
3.7	Food
3.8	The XOMA Corporation
3.9	Weapons
3.10	Advance Materials
3.11	Research and Development
3.12	Alternative Fuels
4	Public Relations
4.1	Enemies and Allies
5	Key Facilities
5.1	Petrochem Headquarters Towers
5.2	XOMA Pharmaceuticals
5.3	Farms
5.4	Refineries
6	Regional Offices
7	Resources & Capital
7.1	Corporate Value
7.2	Action Taken
7.3	Human Resources
7.4	Material Resources
7.5	Black Market Resources
7.6	Subsidiaries
8	Notable Employees
9	Products
9.1	2045
10	Gallery
11	References
History
2000s
Trenton Parker strode across the desert. All around him stood monuments to his family's former glory. The giant oil pumps dotted the plain for miles around. Once they had all dipped their heads in cease-less, coordinated rhythm, pumping precious oil from the depths of the Earth; a field of enormous metal birds, bobbing in an endless orgy of feeding. Once Trenton had thought the feeding would never end. The machines would churn into eternity, drawing fossil fuels from some endless reservoir that would never run dry. He had been young and ignorant then, living off the fat of a family that had grown accustomed to an uninterrupted income of staggering proportions.

One by one, over the years, the machines had ground to a halt. The oil had disappeared, and there was nothing left for the machines to bob for. The pipes to the refinery and the shipping ports in Calves ton had run dry. Oh, there was still oil produced in Texas, and some of it even came from the Parker family oil company, but it was a trickle. Now the oil was shipped by truck to the refineries, and it was used only for the manufacture of chemicals and synthetics. Those oil fields that weren't given over to cattle were home to Nomad tribes. Or completely desolate.

It wasn't over for the Parker family, though. Not by a long shot. The family had owned plenty of land, much of which was arable. Foresight had lead Trenton's father, Louis, to raise the capital to make an investment that many others had scoffed at. Five years ago, when the oil was still flowing, Louis Parker had set up a licensing agreement with the infant Italian genetic engineering firm, Biotechnica. Parker Petrochemicals had become the only company in the United States permitted to commercially grow the genetically-altered wheat Triticum vulgaris megasuavis, a high-sugar grain which was fermented and catalyzed to produce the synthetic alcohol fuel, CHOOH2.

Trenton stopped at a barbed wire fence and leaned against a post. He pushed the brim of his Stetson up and surveyed the land before him. As far as he could see, it was covered with rolling waves of golden wheat. Ripples spread across die fields as the winded died over the low hills. Off in the distance a phalanx of combine harvesters rolled in a staggered line almost a kilometer across.

Five years of waiting had finally paid off. The family had been losing money ever since buying the license to grow the grain. For awhile, it had looked like a monumental mistake. Land was being wasted, money had been spent, and equipment was idle. Suddenly, however, things had reversed themselves. After five years of hemming and hawing, Ford and General Motors both announced that they would begin manufacturing automobiles equipped with CHOOH2-burning engines. Toyota, Honda and many other automotive giants had soon followed suit. Research was under way into producing jet turbines that could burn the heavy alcohol, and shipbuilding companies were experimenting with it. Soon CHOOH2 would be to the world what gasoline, kerosene and a score of other fuels had been. And no one in the U.S. was producing it except for Parker Petrochemicals.

Well, really his and Ellen's. Ellen Trieste was the woman who had provided much of the capital for the purchase of the Biotechnica license. The family hadn't enough assets to swing the deal by itself at the time. Louis Parker had persuaded Ellen Trieste to sink tens of millions of dollars into the deal. The license might allow Parker Petrochemical to grow T. megasuavis, but it was Trieste who had the true power of life and death over the company. With a word she could pull the license and plunge the family into bankruptcy. Not that she was likely to do it. Trieste was set to reap a huge return on the investment, and she was also a prime shareholder in the company.

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

2010
The war in the South China Sea came to an end. Petrochem had lost, and SovOil became the sole drilling power in the region and the world's largest producer of crude oil and crude oil products, bar none. Petrochem was not even close any more. Fortunately, they still had the worlds largest CHOOH2 production facilities and a great empire of chemical and materials research and fabrication facilities. The war had put a crimp in the company's fortunes, but not seriously. A few years of slow growth followed, as Petrochem recouped its financial and manpower losses.

The war had not helped to ease the tensions between Trenton Parker and Ellen Trieste. Ellen had firmly supported the war, while Trenton had argued against it. For a while it looked like Trenton would reverse his losses and seize control of the company, but Trieste rallied her supporters and headed off a coup at the last instant. The animosity between the two shareholders grew, but neither was able to unseat the other completely. Nor was either willing to risk direct action against the other.

2020
Petrochem was now a major world force. It remained on the cutting edge of chemistry and materials research and production, and it was now the world's largest agricultural corporation and greatest producer of CHOOH2. Within the corporation, however, tensions had continued to rise between Trenton Parker's camp and that of Ellen Trieste and Angus Youngblood to the point that they were becoming critical. Each side was preparing for a war that could tear the company apart from the inside out. Intrigue and betrayal were rampant.

2045
Although Petrochem were never directly involved in the Fourth Corporate War, the need to protect their valuable wells and fields, as well as fight off sporadic SovOil attacks as opportunities presented themselves, drew so heavily on the corporation that it entered the post-War period seriously depleted. With the collapse of most multinational fuel companies after War, Petrochem kept the world running. With such vast interests to protect, and due to the loses to Continental Brands, Petrochem had invested huge amounts of money in protecting itself, maintaining an armed force worthy of a small country. Still chafing under its CHOOH2 license from Biotechnica, it was only a matter of time before Petrochem's wily CEO found a way to absorb the smaller biotech company for good.[1]

2077
In 2077, Petrochem remained the largest producer of CHOOH2. However the corporation tanked after 2076 due to severe droughts, soybean and corn CHOOH2's primary complainants suffered record low yields. During this time the governments of Brazil and Colombia, where Petrochem has it's largest plantations, planned to seize crop harvest in an effort to quell surging famines and unrest. Despite their expert team of lobbyist prevented the seizers, the companies stock plummeted 11% by the end of 2076.[3]

Petrochem's CEO, Lars Muhammad, announced the planned acquisition of one million acres of arable land in the USSR in Kazakh, Turkmen, and Dagestani territories.

Database Entry (2077)
PETROCHEM
Petrochem
"Our planet's moving forward – thanks to Petrochem" – that commercial slogan is only half exaggerated. Thanks to its partnership with the bioengineering corporation Biotechnica, Petrochem converts genetically modified wheat grown on Biotechnica's millions of acres of farmland into the biofuel of the future – CHOOH2. In addition, it also has limited rights to grow its own modified grain. That means nobody can entirely avoid Petrochem – though while their influence and resources shouldn't be overstated, their competitors are fully aware of Petrochem's economic and political power. If the megacorporation were able to monopolize fuel production in the country, Petrochem would call the shots on everything. That's why the corp doesn't skimp on its security, hiring the best industry counterintel specialists and always stationed on high alert – an attack could come from anywhere and at anytime.[3]

Products
CHOOH2
Petrochems bread and butter is CHOOH2, the synthetic alcohol that has become the world's standard combustible fuel. Although CHOOH2 was developed by the small Biotechnica Corporation, it is produced by many other companies throughout the world. Biotechnica lacks the giant agricultural and processing resources necessary to grow the genetically-altered wheat and yeast in significant amounts, and process the rough product into CHOOH2. Instead, Biotechnica licenses the rights to farm the patented organisms and refine the products to other companies. Since CHOOH2 is the world fuel standard, and is both patented and impossible to produce without the engineered plants, these licenses are incredibly valuable. Corporations around the world bid against one another when the licenses become available. Bids in hard Eurodollars often rocket into the billions, and more than one corporate war has erupted over the licenses.

CHOOH2 is a modified, synthetic grain alcohol produced by catalyzing the raw product created by Biotechnica's genetically-engineered organisms. It burns more rapidly and at a higher temperature than most other alcohols, making it much more suitable for use as a fuel. Different catalyzing processes result in several isomers and molecular weights in the molecule. These various types of CHOOH2 are used in different kinds of engines. Lighter varieties fuel internal combustion engines, intermediate versions find their way into jet engines and turbine engines, and heavy versions power ships and electrical generators. All of the molecules have the same proportion of elements, and all have two, four or six of the patented CHOOH groups on them. Mixtures of the weights are used for special applications. Any CHOOH2 engine will burn any variety of the fuel, but each works most efficiently with the correct weight.

Farms and Refineries
The essential raw ingredient of CHOOH2 is a bioengineered, high-sugar wheat that is grown on enormous that is grown in many countries. Rolling hills covered with grain have replaced oil fields, and enormous CHOOH2 catalyzing plants have been built on the foundations of refineries worldwide, with fermentation and yeast vats standing where oil tanks once dominated. Double hulled tankers now carry the raw stages and finished product across the oceans, from farms to refiners and from refineries to customers. Enormous pipelines span continents, keeping the essential fuel flowing from the refineries and ships into the vehicles of the world's population.

Petrochem and its subsidiaries have millions of acres of farm land in the U.S. alone, and millions more overseas, all devoted to the CHOOH2 wheat. The corporation oversees the harvesting of the wheat and its fermentation and refinement at many facilities around the world. Petrochem farms and refineries are a universally common sight, and the Petrochem CHOOH4U fuel stops are ubiquitous along the highways, and in the cities, of the world. Petrochem also wholesales CHOOH2 to other fuel-station operators. It does this to camouflage its monopoly from an American population that is suspicious of the enormous trusts that dominate 21 st century commerce. It's a sure bet, however, that any fuel you buy in the U.S. comes from a Petrochem-owned farm via a Petrochem-owned refinery. It is quite possible that fuel bought overseas comes from the same source.

CHOOH2 wheat is also edible, and as it happens, quite tasty when made into breads and other grain products. A good harvest sometimes leads to a surplus of grain. When this happens, Petrochem sells the grain to food manufacturers or countries in need of food relief. Occasionally, as a public relations move, Petrochem will donate the grain to famine-stricken nations. Ironically, because of the licensing agreements, no companies can afford to grow T. Megasuavis for food purposes. Biotechnica and Petrochem have both taken legal steps against corporations and nations that illegally grow the hardy grain, and Petrochem has been known to use military action to enforce legal judgments.

CHOOH2 Technology
Petrochem produces CHOOH2 processing and refining technology for export and for its own use. Since Petrochem was the first corporation to market CHOOH2 on a large scale, it developed much of the technology used in the production and refining of the fuel. Many overseas CHOOH2 companies buy their own processing equipment from Petrochem. They may not have a worldwide monopoly on the fuel, but Petrochem does make sure that it extracts its pound of flesh for the patented fermentation and refining equipment. A notable exception to this is SovOil, which produces its own CHOOH2 equipment rather than buying it from Petrochem. Since Petrochem's techniques are patented, SovOil developed a system which uses a different process. It is more unwieldy than the Petrochem process, and it produces fuel with more impurities in it, but CHOOH2 isn't a major product for SovOil, and the Soviet corporation is willing to make some concessions to avoid giving Petrochem any business.

Petrochem also cooperates with firms such as IEC and Militech in the development of new CHOOH2-fueled engines and power systems. The more systems that rely on CHOOH2, the more of the fuel Petrochem will sell. Currently, projects are in the works to develop more powerful and more efficient CHOOH2 engines and to develop CHOOH2 replacements for gasoline-based weapons such as Napalm and flamethrowers. So far, the higher burning temperature of hydrocarbon products has made CHOOH2 versions of these weapons less desirable. A CHOOH2 thermal weapon does only sixty percent of the damage of a comparably-sized Napalm weapon. Research continues, however, and Petrochem is confident that they'll have competitive CHOOH2 explosive and incendiary systems on the market within a couple of years.

Oil
PC LA CHOOH2 ship 2020
Petrochem Ship in LA bay 2020

Only two companies still pump measurable amounts of crude oil in 2020. By far, the leader is SovOil, which sits on top of the world's largest remaining oil reserves. Although its oil resources are only a fraction of SovOil's, Petrochem is the only other world power in petrochemicals. With the advent of CHOOH2, oil is rarely burned for fuel outside of the Soviet Union, but it is still a key raw material for the production of synthetic materials and many chemical and pharmaceutical products. Petrochem has active oil pumping operations in Canada, Texas, Alaska, California and South America. The only sizable fields are off of the California coast and in Alaska. Most of the other fields are active only because Petrochem has developed new technologies which allow it to extract oil from fields previously thought to have been tapped out. Petrochem is ceaselessly exploring the world for undiscovered oil reserves, competing with its old adversary SovOil for the few fertile deposits remaining. The company still stings from its loss to SovOil in the war over the massive South China Sea fields, and the management longs for another find of a similar size.

Petrochem has a few oil refineries in the U.S., South America and Western Europe. These refineries process crude oil into chemical components that are shipped to factories and labs for use in the manufacture of plastics, chemicals and other products. As oil becomes scarcer, oil-derived products go up in price. Although they account for only a small percentage of its output, Petrochem makes substantial amounts of money off of oil and coal-based chemicals and materials. Another major fossil fuel find could increase the corporation's wealth immeasurably.

PetroChemicals
Organic chemical engineering technology has progressed considerably in the last two decades, and many petrochemically-derived materials have been replaced by substances that can be produced without a hydrocarbon base. Certain applications still require substances that haven't yet been replaced, however. Petrochem is one of the companies that fills this niche, providing specialized petrochemicals and polymers for use in manufacturing, aerospace engineering and medical engineering.

General Chemistry
Petrochem is one of the largest manufacturers of chemical products in the world. It has factories in many nations, devoted to making all kinds of chemical products from synthetic motor oil, to fertilizer, makeup components, pesticides, and food additives. Literally thousands of products roll out of Petrochem's labs and factories and into stores, homes, and other factories around the world. Relaxed pollution and environmental protection standards have made chemical products cheaper and easier to manufacture than ever before. Petrochem has also established hundreds of plants in Third World and economically-depressed countries where large, cheap labor pools and relaxed regulation standards make it possible for the company to manufacture record amounts of chemical products.

Food
Petrochem owns a huge fraction of the world's arable land. The corporation uses most of it for CHOOH2 production but some of it is devoted to other crops. Most of the time, Petrochem has a surplus of T. megasuavis, the wheat that produces CHOOH2,so planting more of it than necessary only serves to cut the price of the grain. Some of the land isn't even suitable for growing wheat, and must be used for other crops. Consequently, Petrochem puts its extra land to use by growing a variety of dedicated food and textile crops. Corn, beans, fruits, potatoes, soy, cotton and rice arc all grown in large quantity by the corporation. As part of its agricultural interests, Petrochem also has large herds of beef and dairy cattle in the United States and South America, and poultry farms around the world. It even maintains fish ranches and aquaculture projects, although these represent a tiny part of the company's empire.

Petrochem's food products are shipped around the world for wholesale and retail distribution. Most of the agricultural products are sold under the name of the corporation's agricultural subsidiary, Continental Farms Agricorp. Continental Agricorp was created solely as a marketing move, since it was felt that people would react badly to food products sold under the name Petrochem. Petrochem's ownership of Continental Agricorp is not a secret, but that one step of removal is all that is necessary to appease the consumers. The company even owns an exclusive, suburban health-food chain called Good Earth Foods, but Good Earth goes out of the way to cover its link to Continental Agricorp and Petrochem. By virtue of Petrochem's huge holdings, Continental is one of the largest agricorps in the world.

The XOMA Corporation
XOMA Labs
XOMA Corporation's Laboratories

Petrochem has a variety of subsidiaries devoted to a number of specialized chemical research and manufacturing applications. Xoma Corporation is the most important of these subsidiaries. Xoma (pronounced "zoma") is responsible for the development and manufacture of Petrochem's extensive line of pharmaceutical products. Xoma is a world leader in the development of new drugs. They have created vaccinations and treatments for ailments as wide as AIDS, schizophrenia, cyber psychosis, and athlete's foot. The subsidiary attracts many of the best and the brightest of the physical chemistry, organic chemistry, biochemistry and molecular biology fields. Xoma's labs are highly proprietary, and commandeer some of Petrochem's toughest security. They are currently branching into genetic drugs and custom bacteria and viral development programs in a cooperative venture with Petrochem's ally, Biotechnica.

Weapons
Exploiting the violent nature of the modern world, Petrochem also maintains a sizable department devoted to the development of chemical weapons, combat drugs and chemical explosives. Petrochem faces stiff competition from Militech in this department, but this has not stopped it from marketing a highly success-line of products to national and corporate armies across the globe. It has also not kept Militech from purchasing many products from Petrochem, including solid and liquid rocket propellants, advanced materials for the components of vehicles and weapons systems, and of course, CHOOH2 to run its vehicles.

Petrochem has been at the forefront with the development of a line of lethal and incapacitating chemical weapons which act in seconds and then break down into harmless components within minutes of use, leaving the area safe for mop-up troops to move in with at requiring protective gear. They have also developed a line of "Selective Agents" designed to be ineffective against troops that have received a series of antidote treatments. This allows soldiers to fight without protection in a cloud lethal to their enemies, or to call down defensive chemical strikes on their own positions with- out fear for their lives. There have been one or two unfortunate incidents with defective antidote treatments, but they have not dampened overall enthusiasm for the products.

Petrochem also bought the license to produce biological and viral agents developed by Biotechnica. Biotechnica is largely a development house, and it lacks the facilities for full-scale production of many of the items it creates. Because of the long, profitable relationship between the two corporations, Petrochem usually gets first crack at profitable licenses for Biotechnica weapons.

Advance Materials
Petrochem is responsible for the development and manufacture of a variety of materials designed to replace hydrocarbon-based plastics and other products dependent upon natural resources. The company has a line of completely synthetic polymers and ceramics which have found popular acceptance as building materials, automotive parts, and electronics components. One of Petrochem's subsidiaries is Nano systems Inc., one of the world's leading manufacturers of super conductors and nanotech devices. Another Petrochem company produces Asphate, the ceramic which has replaced oil-based asphalt as a matrix for road surfaces. Petrochem has released groundbreaking alloys and ceramics that can replace steel and aluminum as the structural materials in buildings and allow new styles and dimensions in construction.

Petrochem has developed a staggering variety of materials, from clothing fabrics to concretes. It currently supplies synthetic raw materials to a number of companies which manufacture other products, making it an essential link in the commercial success of corporations around the world. This dependence of other corporations on Petrochem products has served to make the corporation a world leader.

Research and Development
Petrochem maintains a huge research and development budget, and it has several subsidiaries devoted entirely to the creation of new products which are then manufactured by other branches of the corporation. Petrochem labs register for thousands of patents every month. While it's true that only a few of those go on to be commercially viable products, it speaks of the huge funding and resources that the company is willing to invest in the expansion of its product line and information base.

Petrochem labs currently work full-time on the development of advanced structural and electronic materials, drugs and pharmaceuticals, weapons, fuels and new recycling techniques. They recruit the best and the brightest of physical chemists, organic chemists, engineers, physicists, molecular biologists and bio- chemists. With the amount of talent at their disposal, it is not surprising that they produce a large number of the world's ground- breaking advances in the chemical and physical sciences. They also have labs and researchers working constantly on mechanical and geophysical advances for the petroleum drilling department. These are the researchers who created the methods and devices that allow Petrochem to exploit oil fields once thought to be inaccessible or depleted. They are also developing techniques for locating oil resources that have eluded discovery.

Alternative Fuels
Some of Petrochem's mighty research and development resources are devoted to the endless quest for still more new fuel and energy systems. Petrochem is researching fusion, along with such companies as IEC Power Systems and Arasaka Heavy Industry. It is not doing it for the same reasons, however. IEC is researching fusion in order to provide a power source that can be used as an alternative to CHOOH2-burning plants. They feel that this will free up land for critical food production. This wouldn't effect the demand for CHOOH2 as a vehicle fuel, but it would cut down overall demand and reduce the value of Petrochem's CHOOH2 license. It might also force Petrochem to convert some land to dedicated food production and idle some of their refining capability: a costly situation. Petrochem is researching fusion so that, if a breakthrough is made, it will be able to share in the profits and cut its losses.

Public Relations
Petrochem Execs
A Petrochem executive meeting with a prospective client

Petrochem uses high-visibility tactics to keep its name and logo in the public consciousness. CHOOH4U stops are a major factor in the corporation's visibility as every station sports the company logo. Television and magazine ads plug the wide variety of services and products offered by the corporation, while at the same time, enormous lighted billboards and signs tower over the business districts of many major cities.

Petrochem's food production division is a major public relations boon. The corporation has an ongoing program under which it distributes surplus food stocks to poverty-stricken urban areas and grain to famine-stricken countries. The amounts are small compared the to corporation's overall bud-get, but they serve their purpose as far as public opinion is concerned.

Enemies and Allies
Petrochem's most obvious enemy is SovOil. The two giants have a decades-long history of animosity and competition, and tension is never far away from growing again.

Apart from SovOil, Petrochem has no truly potent enemies. Many other companies compete in CHOOH2 production, but most of them are small enough so that they represent no real threat. Periodically they disrupt Petrochem's operations, but without a coalition, which is unlikely, they will be unable to cause Petrochem any long-term damage. Petrochem also competes with other agricorps, but few of them are willing to take any serious action since they rely on the corporation for fuel.

Petrochem's strongest ally is Biotechnica. As long as Biotechnica holds the patents to CHOOH2, the two companies will remain cordial. Biotechnica will not bend to Petrochem's will, but it does give its largest licensee special deals. Many analysts thought that, once it had the secret of CHOOH2, Petrochem would squash the small Biotechnica and refuse to pay any license fees. Biotechnica has weapons that other corporations only dream about, however, including viruses which can destroy all known varieties of T. Megasuavis. and prevent any seeds from being viable. What it created, it can destroy with unmatched efficiency. As long as Biotechnica holds these trump cards, Petrochem is unlikely to mess around. The companies continue to have a mutually beneficial business arrangement, although it strains a little at license renewal time.

Petrochem also stays on a cordial footing with the industrial giants: Arasaka, Militech, EBM and IEC. Many of these corporations have special deals which enable them to purchase CHOOH2, at a bulk discount. This makes it cheaper for them to keep their armies running, and makes Petrochem a valuable ally. There are always other sources, however, and corporate alliances are fickle things.

Petrochem's monopoly on the North American CHOOH2 supply is a valuable piece of insurance that has helped the corporation to remain secure in troubled times. It remains to be seen how long the company can stay secure as world tensions rise.

Key Facilities
Petrochem Headquarters Towers
Petrochem HQ
The Petrochem Home Towers in Dallas-Ft. Worth

Petrochem's world headquarters complex is on the outskirts of Irving, a Texas corporate suburb in the Dallas-Ft. Worth Metroplex, just a few minutes drive from downtown Dallas. The buildings arc relatively recent, having been constructed to replace the old Parker Petrochemicals headquarters in 2006.Many of the Metroplex's once proud corporate sectors have fallen on hard times since the death of the American petroleum industry. The old oil company buildings have been leased piecemeal, sold, or just left to decay. Some areas still thrive, but most of the new buildings belong to agricorps and foreign high-tech corporations.

The Petrochem headquarters complex is really two separate towers, connected underground. The towers are angled slightly towards one another, with the main faces designed to create the illusion of a reflection. A mirror-image pattern of alternating rows of reflective and tinted windows helps to complete the illusion. Even the company logo is mirror imaged on the towers. There is also a large reflecting pool in the plaza in front of the buildings. The overall effect is quite striking. At night, powerful floodlights shine straight up from the roofs of the towers, reaching into the night sky over Irving. The two buildings are called Tower One and Tower Two.

The company owns several acres of land around the towers, and the complex stands alone. Although there are several nearby industrial buildings, the nearest other tower of any size is a kilometer away. Tower One, on the left, is the actual corporate headquarters, with the executive and board offices, the military command centers, and the liaison offices for all of the company branches and subsidiaries. Tower Two contains the headquarters for the subsidiaries Continental Agricorp and Petrochem Oil Technologies, and the regional office for Xoma Pharmaceuticals and a few other large subsidiaries.

The towers are similar in interior decor and layout. The lobbies of the two buildings are almost identical. Each has a wide, recessed entrance, and each is high-ceiling-ed and painted and carpeted in light, airy colors. Photos and paintings depicting Old West and oil-business history line the walls, and there are scale models of Petrochem ships, oil platforms, and CHOOH2 refineries.

XOMA Pharmaceuticals
The Xoma Pharmaceuticals headquarters is located in Night City, where the subsidiary was founded. The building is a relatively small, black and white, four story structure in an office park in South Night City. The building sits in a fenced and patrolled area, all of which is off limits to anyone not wearing a Xoma or Petrochem ID or carrying a badge. Three hundred people work at the Xoma headquarters, 200 researchers and technicians, and 100 hundred management, staff and security. There are always twenty-two troops on duty in the building; four in the lobby, six patrolling the grounds, ten patrolling the building, and two at the gate. More troops can be called up within a few minutes. The interior decor of the building is extremely stylish and high tech. All access is tightly monitored. Facilities include an infirmary, armory, security center, cafeteria, and labs. There is always an Osprey on call on one of the two roof-top helipads.

Farms
Petrochem has huge firms devoted entirely to the cultivation of T. Megasuavis for CHOOH2. Farms can cover thousands of square kilometers, with buildings concentrated in a few scattered locations. The huge fields are crisscrossed with paved roads, dirt service roads, and irrigation ditches and pipes. Most farms have a remote outpost for every one hundred square kilometers of field. ROs have small security squads (usually no more than five to ten men), monitoring posts, huge silos for harvested grain, a garage for the automated combine harvesters, tractors and grain trucks that run in that area, and facilities for the workers that operate and service the machinery. Each farm also has a command center which coordinates the planting, pest control, harvesting, and transport duties of the remote outposts.

Refineries
Fermenteries might be a better term for most of the plants, but the name is applied to all of the huge fuel processing stations, whether they use wheat or oil. Refineries are huge structures, with tank Farms, refining towers, sumps, pumping stations, yeast farms, fermentation vats, filtering arrays, catalyzing tanks, power plants, furnaces, and docks, all connected by thousands of miles of pipeline. They can cover up to a square mile or more, and be staffed by several thousand personnel. Most of Petrochem's refineries are sea-front, to facilitate the loading of refined CHOOH2 onto the ranker ships and submarines which carry it around the world, and to minimize the overland travel of the precious oil recovered by the offshore drilling rigs and SDPR platforms. These huge oil terminals and docks require even more personnel. The oil terminals are huge piers built several hundred meters off shore, in relatively sheltered, shallow water. The piers are connected to land by elevated roadways and huge pipes. Tankers and submarines can heave to at the terminals and load or unload grain, oil, and CHOOH2.

Regional Offices
Petrochem holds regional offices in cities across the world. Each of their office buildings has its their own style of construction and décor. Security arrangements and the company logo are the two things that change little from site to site. Major Petrochem offices can be found in New York, Washington, D.C., Miami, Chicago, San Francisco, Night City, Tokyo, London, Hamburg, Hong Kong, Paris, Rome, Sydney, and several other offices can be found in other cities.

Resources & Capital
Petrochem ranks behind several other megacorps in size, assets, and overall value, but its high CHOOH2 sales and precious oil reserves make it one of the richest and most important companies in 2020. Petrochem also owns more land and more vehicles than many other corporations, and maintains larger armed forces. It has a number of diverse and widespread subsidiaries, including the powerful and wealthy Xoma Pharmaceuticals and the vast Continental Farms Agricorp.

Corporate Value
Petrochem's total value in assets is 381 billion Eurobucks, putting it in the number 8 slot in C Magazines index of the top ten corporations. Petrochem is aiming for a spot in the top five, and figures that the discovery of a few new oil fields could give them the push they need. Petrochem needs an additional 50 billion in net assets to push into the top five, but competition is stiff, with several other companies, including Militech and SovOil, in the running for the same slot.

Petrochem's 380 billion eb is divided into a number of holdings. 160 billion represents the company's CHOOH2 holdings and sales, 100 billion is various other real estate and durable goods, including the fleets and oil projects, 60 billion is the projected value of Petrochem's oil reserves, 45 billion represents subsidiaries, 10 billion is investments and cash reserves, and 5 billion is miscellaneous holdings.

Although Petrochem has a smaller net worth than many other megacorporations, it is actually in a stronger financial position than several because it has no large banking arm, and only a small share of its assets are in the form of debts and liens held.

Action Taken
Petrochem is a public corporation with 402 million shares of common stock. Petrochem's stock fluctuates in response the CHOOH2 harvest, the state of relations with SovOil, discovery or depletion of oil reserves, the fortunes of its privately held subsidiaries (Xoma, Continental Agricorp, etc.), and other market forces such as the US and EEC prime rates and national and world-wide military and economic tensions. It is believed that a major oil find might cause the stock to increase dramatically, and possibly to split, and many investors are staking fortunes on this. The current stock price is 110 eb per share. Over the past few years, the price has fluctuated between 79 and 121 eb per share. The all time low came in 2010 after defeat at the hands of SovOil, when company stock traded for 52 eb per share, down from a pre-war high of 99. Even these days, ten years later, war speculation is enough to cause the stock to tumble.

Human Resources
Petrochem and its subsidiaries employ just over 400,000 people world-wide. Fifty thousand of these are armed forces personnel, ten thousand serve in various merchant marine positions, forty thousand work at CHOOH2 or oil refining and/or drilling facilities, forty thousand work on CHOOH2 farms around the word, twenty thousand Agri-corp facilities, eighty thousand work as executives, researchers and staff at Petrochem is and work for various subsidiary companies and chains.

Material Resources
The company keeps a storehouse of other military materiel, including artillery, armored and unarmored combat vehicles, missiles, and heavy weapons. It also has large supplies of general items, such as trucks, cars, computers, farm and security equipment, and communications gear.

Black Market Resources
Aside from its potent military forces and secret agents, Petrochem has black resources, such as powerful viral agents that attack all strains of T. Megasuavis and the CHOOH2 fermentation yeast, Saccharomyces prestoni. Courtesy of Xoma's groundbreaking work, and the company's strong ties to Biotechnica, Petrochem also has access to a wide variety of chemical and biological war fire agents and combat drugs.

Subsidiaries
Petrochem's unifying corporate body is the Petrochemical Associates International Corporation. PAIC's corporate divisions include: Petrochem Inc., Petrochem Petroleum Technologies, Petrochem CHOOH2, Petrochem Advanced Fuel (CHOOH2) Technologies, the Petrochem Credit Union, Petrochem Chemical Industries, and the Petrochem Armed Forces. Some subdivisions include: The Submerged Drilling Project, Petrochem Shipping, Petroleum Refining, Petrochem Farms, Advanced Fuel Refining, Special Projects, Advanced Materials, Alternate Fuels, Petrochem Weapons, and Petrochem Lobbying and Marketing.

Petrochem also has a large number of true subsidiary companies, protected by the usual web of cross-ownership and cross-investment. Just a few of Petrochem's subsidiaries are: Xoma Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; CHOOH4U, Inc.; SeaRig, Inc.; Continental Farms Agricorp, International; Good Earth Foods; International Hydro-Technologies (pumping and pipelines); PetroTech Auto Parts; Loomis Advanced Electronic Research; Moo-Moo Burger, Zany-Cola; Triti-Fizz; Hydro-Chem, Inc; Goman Pharmaceuticals; Sleep King Mattresses; Col-R-Boy Paints; Coastal Engineering and Construction Company, Nanosystems Inc; and the Dallas Cowboys football team. There are many more.

Trauma Team
SIGN IN TO EDIT
2013Icon2020IconCyberGenerationIconV3IconRedIcon2077IconEdgeIcon1
Trauma Team International
Video Game
RED
2020
Video Game
Information
Variation(s)
Trauma Team (TT)
Trauma Team North America
Type
Ambulance
Paramedical
Status
Active
Headquarters
Seattle, Washington
Location(s)
Night City
Tokyo
Most major North American cities
Notable People
Carrie Lachanan
(Major shareholder)
No. of Members
17,000 (as of 2020)
Country
NUSA
Affiliation(s)
Delamain Corporation (partnership)[1]
Appearance(s)
By now, I don't even see the bodies as people. I see them as either parts or pickups.
– Trauma Team employee, Cyberpunk 2020

Trauma Team International (TTI) is a corporation that specializes in rapid response medical services. As the premium paramedical franchise, Trauma Team™ is one of the most notable corporations of the 21st century. The company automatically bills their patients from the moment they receive the order to the location of retrieval.[2]

TTI partners with many corporations such as Arasaka, Militech, Night Corp, Biotechnica, or Kiroshi, allowing certain employees access to Trauma Team memberships without paying for the service themselves. The medical corporation also manufacturers its own products for the general public to use.


Contents
1	History
1.1	2022 - 2023
1.2	2045
1.3	2077
2	Database Entry (2077)
3	Business Model (2020)
3.1	Full Body Life Coverage
3.2	Corporate Coverage / Corporate Executive Coverage
3.3	High Priority Coverage
4	Business Model (2045)
4.1	Silver Coverage
4.2	Executive Coverage
5	Business Model (2077)
5.1	Premium Packages
6	Trauma Team squads
7	Notable employees
8	Behind the scenes
9	Gallery
10	References
History
Trauma Team International was founded in Seattle, Washington at some point before 2020. Due to the increased violence and crime rate in the United States, it quickly became one of the most powerful corporations in America. Trauma Team International also started operations in Canada under the same name, later moving to parts of Europe and Japan.

In 2020, Trauma Team boasted over a dozen Trauma Teams on call at any time in any major city. Trauma Team also has a large medical Hospital in Night City, they can also be found overseas as Trauma Team Japan located in Tokyo and Trauma Team Europe. Made up of the best paramedical techs and staff available, the teams travel within a heavily armored Trauma Team AV-4 supported by mobile tanker trucks and ground refueling stations. The AV-4 itself carries the most sophisticated reviving and life support technology available to the corporation, such as a mobile cryotank.[2]

While responsible for reviving and stabilizing any critically wounded patients, Trauma Teams were under no obligation to transport casualties to a hospital. With rates of €$100 per minute, most Trauma Team services were part of Corporate group insurance policies, or individual TT International accounts, with €$500 monthly premiums.

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

2022 - 2023
During the Fourth Corporate War, TTI became busier than ever before, the company's capabilities had been stretched to their limit. To keep the number of cases down, as well as to preserve their neutrality, Trauma Team declared that they wouldn't respond to any alert from a member of the Arasaka Corporation or Militech. Instead, Trauma Team would only respond to civilian requests, and they'd be charging the combat rate if anyone so much as fired a weapon within half a kilometer. Even with those extra costs, TT was swamped with calls after every clash.

2045
Trauma Team survived the War, but only as regional providers. The conflict not only drew heavily upon their limited resources, but also upon their suppliers. Repair parts for their fleet of AV-4s and jets were hard to come by, as well as medical dressings, key drugs and vaccines, as well as the trained personnel. As hospitals and clinics collapsed, more and more ill or wounded patients were dropped to Trauma Team care. Not all of these patients could afford TT's high response fees, but groups of Edgerunners had been known to chip in to buy a single card that they could break to call in the Trauma Team in the hopes that the TT paramedics would at least tend to their wounded team members.

TT's Corporate look as well after the war: in the past, their crisp blue and yellow uniforms were a comforting sign of their competence and capability. But endless street battles and the availability of surplus military hardware had forced the Trauma Team to armor up. The uniforms were still blue, but the new helmets are mil-spec, heavy duty combat rigs, coupled with heavy armor, power armor support systems (yellow), and self-contained combat medipacs. As a result this coupled with the lack of qualified Medtechs, had given Trauma Team a new face: harried, overworked, angry, and impatient. By 2045, Trauma Team International had been reduced to the Neocorp of Trauma Team North America. Trauma Teams were now independent franchise-owned groups patrolling cities and responding to insured victims.[3]

2077
In 2077, Trauma Team International reorganized and retrieved much of it's previous assets. As the crime rates went up within the NUSA, TTI raised prices of their services and have been equipped with more arsenal then it had in 2020. Trauma Teams were equipped with the Trauma Team Atlus AVs manufactured by Zetatech. Kang Tao supplies TTI with weapons that every team is equipped with.[4]

Database Entry (2077)
TRAUMA TEAM
Trauma Team
Seven minutes or a refund. That's the Trauma Team guarantee – the type of guarantee that warms a policy holder's heart as they begin to bleed out in an alley. Assuming you haven't lost consciousness from blood loss, don't worry as you count the seconds of life slipping from you, because help is on the way. First, you'll see a heavily armored AV descend from the sky, using its heavy machine gun turrets to mow down the bastards who are trying to kill you. Then you'll see the medics, your guardian angels clad in green and white and armed to the teeth. And once the Trauma Team staff puts you back to together, you'll get the bill for your copay. It may have a long list of zeros attached to it, but you'll still sign up for a half-year policy extension with a smile on your lips.

Trauma Team provides medical, paramedical and extraction services in all of the world's major cities. Their services are highly respected and sought after by those who can afford them. In fact, this may be the only corporation that enjoys such a high level of public trust. They don't play politics, they don't ask questions. As long as you pay your dues, your life is safe in their hands – no matter how dire the situation.[4]

Business Model (2020)
Full Body Life Coverage
This plan costs either $500 per month, or $5,550 with a yearly plan discount.

In the event that a Trauma Team is dispatched, the customer/patient also had to pay E$100 for every minute until arrival at the nearest corporate hospital. Finally, the customer/patient also has to pay for the cost of all ammunition that the Trauma Team fired, all of the fuel that was used, and has to pay for any equipment or personnel damage.

If the Trauma Team is not able to reach the customer within 10 minutes, the customer/patient receives 50% off the cost of spent ammunition.[5]

Corporate Coverage / Corporate Executive Coverage
The Corporate Coverage plan costs $1,500 per month, or $16,500 with a yearly plan discount.

The Corporate Executive Coverage plan costs $12,000 per month, or $120,000 with a yearly plan discount.

These plans promise a response time of 7 minutes. The customer/patient is taken to a corporate medical center upon pickup. The customer/patient still has to pay for equipment or personnel damage.

The executive plan covers all ammo and fuel costs, but the customer/patient still has to pay for any equipment or personnel damage.[5]

High Priority Coverage
This plan costs $34,000 per month and does not have a yearly rate.

This plan comes with a gold Trauma Team Inc. card. The response time for this plan is 3-to-5 minutes, which Trauma Team claims is the fastest in the business. Once the customer/patient is picked up, they will be taken to a corporate hospital instead of a medical center. All ammunition and fuel costs are covered, but the customer/patient still has to pay for any equipment or personnel damage.[5]

Business Model (2045)
Operating from an AV-4 Urban Assault Vehicle of ambulance configuration and a belly-mounted minigun, Trauma Teams include a driver, one or more First Aid operatives, and two or more Solo security agents. A Dispatcher may also be part of the team, in charge of sending them on missions.[3]

In 2045, Trauma Team demand increased, requiring the corporation to change their coverage plans to reflect the state of the world, reducing their level of coverage to two levels: Silver and Executive. Most Corporate Cops receive full medical coverage from Trauma Team. Execs can receive Corporate-paid Silver coverage at Teamwork Rank 6, being upgraded to Executive automatically at Rank 8.[6]

Silver Coverage
Silver coverage plans cost €$500 per month, and are charged for surgery, equal to the cost of being charged at a hospital. If members do not wish to pay extra for hospital treatments, the Trauma Team will do everything in their paramedical abilities before dropping the member off at a hospital.[6]

Executive Coverage
This plan costs €$1,000 per month, including the same benefits as Silver coverage, but surgery treatments are provided at no extra cost.[6]

Business Model (2077)
Trauma Team services are comprised of two main components:

On-the-ground services includes 24/7 emergency AV dispatch with a reflex booster-ready pilot, armed safety experts, and military-trained paramedics. A client's health status is tracked by internal cyberware, and if a client takes a turn for the worse, an AV squad receives their GPS signal and arrives on the scene in minutes. Reaction time and additional perks are dependent on the client's insurance package.

Inpatient care guarantees that every Trauma Team branch clinic is equipped with surgical nannites, specialized antibodies, and cryogenic chambers. Trauma Team also offers their own medications and reanimators, and has a selection of surplus implants from their suppliers.

Premium Packages
Trauma Team's premium insurance packages are divided into three grades: Silver, Gold, and Platinum. The Platinum package is the most comprehensive and expensive option. It includes 24/7 monitoring, emergency patient transport, surgery and nano surgery, post-trauma rehabilitation, plastic surgery on demand, free check ups with the client's ripperdoc, and up to 90% discount on prescriptions, and a 3-minute response time. Gold and Silver packages are cheaper, but include fewer perks.

Clients can subscribe to one of Trauma Team's premium packages for as little as 24 hours if they cannot afford longer-term coverage.

Trauma Team squads
Each Trauma Team squad consists of:

An aerodyne pilot and co-pilot
2x Security Specialists
A lead EMT (Emergency Medical Technician)
An assistant EMT
Each trauma team squad has their own TTI Medical AV-4A, a light-weight Aerodyne made of composite materials. The pilot mans the AV-4A, while the co-pilot mans the vehicle's front-mounted gatling gun. The pilot and co-pilot do not leave the Aerodyne during patient extraction, and their cockpit is kept separate from the rest of the vehicle.

During flight, two Security Specialists sit in the same compartment as the EMTs. The security specialists sit directly behind the pilot and co-pilot, and each of them mans a 7.62 Squad Automatic Weapon (SAW) machine-gun mounted to their side of the vehicle. The EMTs sit toward the back of the vehicle, with the Lead EMT sitting next to the patient stretcher and the Assistant EMT sitting next to the medical supplies.

During patient extraction, the two EMTs and two Security Specialists disembark from the AV-4A and make their way to the patient to rescue them. If necessary, the two Security Specialists will clear a path to the patient for the EMTs using their rifles and submachine guns. Each EMT is armed with a pistol for self-protection.

6th Street are one of the many gangs featured in Cyberpunk 2077.[1]


Contents
1	Overview
1.1	Philosophy and structure
1.2	Source of income
2	Database Entry
3	Notable Members
4	Behind the Scenes
5	Notes
6	Gallery
7	References
Overview
Founded by veterans of the fourth Corporate War tired of the helplessness of the NCPD, members of 6th Street in 2045 are generally well-armed and heavily cybered-up with armament from their days in the field. Recently, they have been forced to move into extortion and smuggling in efforts to pay their bills. While they operate all throughout the city, the 6th Street all are welcome protectors of the Holy Angels Church in Little Europe.[2] 6th Street was meant to serve and protect the community of Vista del Rey. Today their interpretation of the law and "bringing justice to the city" is questionable and self-serving.[3]

The 6th Street gang was founded by old-fashioned American patriots who came together to act as an ad hoc police force. They have since forgone their original goal of serving public trust and are no different than any other gang who abuse their power and position in local communities. They regularly force smaller neighborhood businesses to pay tribute and "protection money," and are known to engage in outright criminal activities such as vehicle theft, illicit drug manufacturing and distribution, and murder.

The uniforms of 6th Street gangers are heavily influenced by military and patriotic accents: military boots, tactical vests and knee pads, cargo pants, baseball caps with old USA flags, stars, stripes, and eagles. Cyberware used by the gang include cyberoptics, pain editors, and health monitors.[1]

By 2077, 6th Street was supplied by Militech and Kendachi. That same year, the gang underwent a sudden change in leadership, the culmination of a schism between members who were fine with dealing with corporations and members who considered such activities to be a betrayal of the gang's founding principles. The anti-corpo faction, led by Will Gunner, seized power in a coup when Gunner brazenly killed the gang's leader at the time, "General" Rick Morton. What followed was a bloody purge of Morton's lieutenants, loyalists, and other associates as Gunner's people consolidated their grip over 6th Street. Despite Gunner's anti-corpo stance, 6th Street continued to work with some corporations, and even secretly cooperated with Kendachi to design new line of weapons.

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

Philosophy and structure
I've dealt with 6th street before. We do the run, they'll transfer the cred.
– Panam Palmer to Nash, [citation needed]

The gang consists of about 2,300 members. 6th Street was formed about fifty years ago by veterans of the Fourth Corporate War who were tired of the local gangs and the helplessness of the NCPD and decided to take matters into their own hands. They gathered some equipment, refreshed themselves on their training, and then took to the streets.

The gang was created to keep thugs and hoodlums at bay, and the charismatic leaders gave people a way protect themselves and seek retribution for the damage caused by other gangs. 6th Street gangers today are veterans of more recent conflicts, retired military and discharged corporate security officers who were unable to find other employment. The rest of the gang consists of civilians who received military training after joining.

Their main headquarters of the gang is in Arroyo but the other districts under their control have their own local HQs that are responsible for patrolling the neighborhood and monitoring the gang's facilities.[1]

Source of income
6th Street's operations include robbery, extortion, and gun smuggling. The group has extensive connections with nomad groups outside of Night City.

The gang also steals and modifies cars. 6th Street have talented techies and run many garages and workshops around the city. They offer services as a combat taxi for hire, which makes them especially popular among edgerunners and mercenaries.

Despite their criminal nature, the gang is mostly tolerated by corporations and police forces, unless 6th Street gangers cause trouble outside their established turf. Military oriented corporations have customers for high-end products and the NCPD's job is made easier by the ersatz law that the gang maintains in their neighborhoods.[1]

Database Entry
6TH STREET
6th Street
After the 4th Corporate War, a large number of career soldiers were left without jobs or prospects - the most enterprising of them formed the 6th Street Gang. Not only do they boast veterans among their ranks, but also ex-police officers, former corporate security agents and "civilians" who have had a crash course in combat training - everyone and anyone who wants to bring order to this town.

The end justifies the means, and the means usually involve robberies, extortion, arms dealing and stealing cars. Their main turf is in Arroyo, but 6th Street's garages and bases of operation can also be found in other parts of the city.[4]

The Animals are one of the many gangs in Night City appearing in Cyberpunk 2077. The Animals are a gang that focuses on achieving peak human strength. They are the strongmen of the 2070s.


Contents
1	Overview
1.1	Philosophy and structure
1.2	Criminal activity and sources of income
2	Database Entry
3	Notable Members
4	Behind the Scenes
5	Gallery
6	References
Overview
The Animals are an aggressive street-fighting boostergang from west Pacifica that puts emphasis on physical power above all else. They avoid traditional cyberware so they enhance themselves with melee combat-enhancing implants and by using ultra-testosterone, animal supplements, and a steroid-like drug known as "the Juice" which increases the user's strength and speed[1] but cause risk problems.[2]

They frequently sell off their services as bouncers, a job for which they are heavily sought after, and are spread throughout the area. They have cornered the illegal substance trade as well as underground live-or-die prize fighting. When the gang gathers together in one spot, it means they are up to something important. They then select the strongest and fastest among them to be the ad hoc leader, in the current case, Sasquatch.

The Animals are an aggressive street-fighting gang with no permanent turf. Their members are known to abstain from the most common electronic implants in favor of custom-brewed body enhancements and modifications. They use ultratestosterone and animal supplements, including horse growth hormones, to make themselves bigger and stronger. Experienced brawlers and trained in various forms of martial arts, Animals are keen on cage fights, duels, and other displays of brute physical force. Their ferocity and toughness make them sought-after bouncers and bodyguards.

They typically sport tattoos and hooligan hoods as well as some artificial animalistic features ranging from purely cosmetic changes like spotted or striped skin and sub dermal implants to extreme plastic surgery and cybernetic modifications like bestial jaws, and vat-grown implanted muscles. Cyberware used by the gang include pain editors, combat drug injectors, augmented cyberlimbs.[3]

They are involved in a gang war with the Voodoo Boys. They are based in the Grand Imperial Mall in Pacifica. V is tasked by the Voodoo Boy, Placide, to infiltrate their hideout. After V infiltrates the hideout, they can kill Sasquatch.

GameSpot Expert Reviews
Cyberpunk 2077 Review
Cyberpunk 2077 Review 
07 December 2020

Philosophy and structure
Animals aren't the play here, are they? They're hired muscle. Someone else needed them.
– V, [citation needed]

The Animals are fascinated with the feral, primal side of human nature. They view this aspect as the border between man and animal and are each on a personal quest establish themselves as a new dominant human subspecies. To achieve this, they constantly subject themselves to brutal and violent tests of skill. They will often take on dangerous cyberimplanted opponents be they members of other gangs, police, or corporate forces. They train in fighting sports not for philosophical reasons but to sharpen their effectiveness in combat.

Internal gang relations are equally animalistic. On their own impermanent turf, Animals are divided into small "packs" led by the biggest and strongest member, the alpha male or female. Disputes are often solved with trial by combat, which is fought until one side completely submit.[3]

Criminal activity and sources of income
Animals are mostly known for their ultraviolent raids on residential districts and other gangs' home turf. They organize illegal underground fights and manufacture and sell drugs, mostly custom brew anabolic steroids. A few packs specialize in raiding drug stores, chemical transport, pharmaceutical companies, and drug dealers. Some hire themselves out as bouncers at brothels and strip clubs, or as racketeers who specialize in extortion and assault.[3]

The Black Queens is one of the many gangs in Night City.This gang has staked out "The Hole" at City Center as its home turf. Rather harm less in this violent day and age, the Black Queens are a small-time gang of street hoodlums. Deep in the middle of Sacred Blades territory (the Blades consider B.Q. members to be "beneath a warrior's notice"), the gang has no regular enemies, and are rarely, if ever, involved in any turf struggles.
Big time crime to the Queens is having an occasional member turn tricks as a joygirl or sell cheap drugs to local businessmen. Since none of the drugs have gone bad yet, the N.C.P.D. leaves the Queens pretty much alone.
But the Queens can be useful at times. Scattered throughout City Center, they are often a very good information source for the area, and both the local cops and corporate police have taken advantage of this in the past. As long as they're paid for the work, the Black Queens will be happy to do your job.
Switchblades are the only weapons carried by low-ranking gang members (if any weapons are carried at all). Firearms are reserved for the gang lords. Gang membership policy is open, but in general, the Queens shy away from violent, highly combative people.[1]

Maelstrom is one of the many gangs found in Night City.


Contents
1	History
2	Database Entry (2077)
3	Overview
3.1	Philosophy & Structure
3.2	Criminal Activity & Sources of Income
4	Notable Members
5	Equipment (2077)
5.1	Firearms
5.2	Vehicles
6	Notes
7	Appearances
8	Behind the Scenes
9	Gallery
10	References
History
A booster gang formed from what was left of the Metal Warriors, a gang that was almost completely wiped out by the Inquisitors. It has also acquired members from the Red Chrome Legion and Ironsights, who also have grudges against the Inquisitors. While the Inquisitors are a special target for their violence, Maelstrom will also (of course) attack anyone else as well.

Maelstrom members dress in black leather, darkened denim and chrome, preferring visible high-profile cyberware, generally appearing to be primitive and dangerous. A full third of them are clinical Cyberpsychos, and the remainder are borderline. Back when they were the Metal Warriors they held on to a code of honor. When their original leader Hammer was thrown out, the code of honour went as well, and the rest of their humanity. If you're being chased by the Inquisitors, they’d probably ignore you to attack them instead, and vice versa. At any other time, you would be targeted indiscriminately.

Claiming a turf near the Docks, they’re based in an abandoned building there. The area is volatile because many of the businesses in this area covertly support Solos and some corporations. The gang realizes this, and excludes those businesses from their protection racket.

In the past, most of their crimes have been small time, but their hunger for newer, more lethal and more expensive cyberware, pushing more dangerous drugs, inclined them to attack larger targets, such as those that serve the Solos and Corporations. So the area is primed to erupt into a bloodbath.[1]

In 2077, the Maelstrom Gang is located in the All Foods Plant in Night City. With 1,300 members[2], they are led by Royce after he deposed and imprisoned the last boss, Brick.[3] They are known to have heavy combat augmentation, pain editors, Reflex Boosters, and signature red street mod optical units of unknown capabilities.

Maelstrom's territory is the industrial part of Watson. Its factories, the Totentanz Club - you'll meet them there. Deeply obsessed with cybertechnology, their urge to improve the weakness of their own human flesh is far stronger than their fear of cyberpsychosis.[4]


Database Entry (2077)
MAELSTROM
Maelstrom
A gang that controls the districts of Watson and the Northside Industrial District (NID). You can easily recognize them by their intimidating faceplates and hostile optic implants, which not only indicates their gang affiliation but also their fetishization of cyberware and cybermodification.
Looking at Maelstrom, you might think, "Now those are some hella bold pioneers of transhumanism." If they were only testing the limits of the human body on themselves, then you'd be right... Sadly, they also like to conduct "experiments" on those unfortunate enough to cross their path. Maelstrom is known for their exceptionally brutal and public gang executions – combine that with illegal braindance production and a manic fighting style and you've got yourself a gang with a reputation as a band of lunatics on the verge of cyberpsychosis. The truth is there's nothing crazy about how Maelstrom operates – at the end of the day it's all about biz. And the more rumors there are about them, the better.[5]
Overview
Philosophy & Structure
And who the fuck're you to say what can and can't be?
– Royce, Leader of Maelstrom, [citation needed]
They are fascinated with cyberware, the Net, the occult, and the pursuit of any otherworldly sensation.
They partition their organization into smaller groups, each responsible for a different part of their criminal empire. Depending on the task, these groups can be as large thirty members and partake in raids, hit jobs, or protecting valuable cargo- or as many as four or five if patrolling their own turf.[2]
The gang appear to have an affinity for nicknames.
Criminal Activity & Sources of Income
The main revenue stream for Maelstromers comes from smuggling illegal meds and drugs. They also perform hit jobs, which they execute in a bizarre and brutal fashion. Many victims are found dismembered, skinned alive, or found in wet concrete. They also perform well planned and executed heists on guarded corporate transports.
Another prominent source of income is the Totentanz club, the most popular gangster club and "drink&riot" venue in Night City. Totentanz is located in an abandoned factory where other gangers go to party and listen to neo-death metal music as long as they obey the Maelstrom's authority and customs. If a night at TTC has a body count less than dozen it is considered crappy and boring.
Rumors say that the gang is involved in the production of black market braindance records- especially bizarre, disturbing, and extremely violent ones. Other records they are rumored to produce are called "Numbness", an emotional void that places users in a strange state of mind, which are quite popular among overstimulated BD users. Despite these rumors, the NCPD has found no evidence to prove the Maelstrom are involved in the BD black market.[2]

Scavengers
The Scavengers are a gang featured in Cyberpunk 2077. They are known for kidnapping people and forcibly harvesting their cyberware.
Scavengers can be found all over Night City. They deal in selling to the black market cyberware forcefully ripped from their unsuspected victims. They are ruthless and care little for anyone else around them.

Pre-release materials from CDPR suggest that Scavengers have connections with Soviet Union. Members speak Russian, have some Russian graffiti, listen to Russian music.[1] Scavengers are recognized by their tracksuits, Soviet cyberware, and criminal tattoos.

Scavenger are ruthless lowlife scum who prey on unwary law-abiding citizens and gangers alike. They emerged as a side effect of the mass availability of body augmentations. Harvesting cyberware and organs is a nasty but profitable business, and Scavengers fill this niche by assaulting their victims on the streets. They are absolutely brutal with zero regard to human life. To a Scav, a human is just a set of products waiting to be sold on the black market.[2]

Philosophy and Structure
Scavengers do not obey any particular philosophy. They do not care about anything but themselves and profit. They are merciless and immoral, their methods are far from sophisticated- Scavs are not afraid to get their hands dirty. This loosely defined gang has achieved a monopoly in the body parts aftermarket, since their customers would rather pay for human organs and second-hand cyberware than get into the gore business themselves. Cyberware used by the gang include cyberoptics, pain editors, health monitors, Kereznikov, and K.E.R.S.

Scavengers tend to operate in small groups, with no official hierarchy to unite them,[3] nor do they have a designated piece of turf. Their groups are spread throughout Night City and mark their presence with tags and graffiti. They can be found anywhere but they have a more concentrated presence in northern Pacifica and southern part of Wellsprings. Due to this scattering, they tend to form small bands with little or no internal hierarchy or structure, though groups tend to be led by the most unscrupulous, savage, and cunning individuals. Despite their lack of organized structure, Scavenger groups are definitely not to be disregarded or taken lightly. Knowing that their gruesome reputation is one of their few assets, they will make sure to make a grisly example of anyone who crosses them or complicates their business.[2]

Sources of Income
Assault, abduction, mutilation, and dismemberment are the Scavengers' usual modus operandi. Their victims, or "donors" as Scavs call them, are often never found, because the gang tend to use the entire body of their victims. Any cyberware or organs that can be harvested or sold are placed on the black market. The impossible to find leftovers are either dumped, burned, or left as fodder for rats in the city sewers.

Scavengers are the main suppliers for low-end cyberware for other gangs, small-time criminals, and shady ripperdocs. They are also frequently hired to perform unpleasant or inconvenient tasks with which their clients do not want to be associated, be they heists, hit jobs, and abductions. As long as there is money on the table, a Scav will take the job no questions asked.[2]

The Mox is a gang in Cyberpunk 2077. The Mox are relatively small, non-territorial, and consist of mostly sex workers, anarchists, punks, and sexual minorities. Formed in 2067 in the interest of mutual self-defense purposes, their name comes from the old slang term "moxie," denoting their determination to stand up against their oppressors.[2] One of their emblems is "Moxes" written in calligraphy.

The Moxes like to wear outfits that are a mix of the punk aesthetic and the inexpensive fashion worn typically by prostitutes, however they usually do not wear clothes that would restrain their movements in any way, leaving them looking more like gangers than your typical sex workers. Some members, especially those who focus on combat, have heavily modified bodies that sometimes evoke a "plastic doll" style, but may also be disguised with RealSkinn. One of their gang symbols is a labrys-a double-headed axe-displayed on their walls, clothes, tattoos, or jewelry.[2] The Mox have their own clothing brand that goes by the name BITCH.

They are based out of Lizzie's Bar in Kabuki, Watson.

The Mox formed during the riots that occurred after the death of Elizabeth "Lizzie" Borden, a well known strip club owner and former prostitute who was fair when treating her workers and even defended them from violent clients.[3]

On May 13 2067, one of Lizzie's girls was brutally raped and murdered by Tyger Claw gangers. Lizzie avenged her by killing three of the assailants with an axe and displayed their bodies in front of her club, proclaiming that the same would happen to anyone else who hurt a prostitute. That night, Tyger Claws raided and demolished her bar before killing Elizabeth. These actions created an uproar that the Tygers could not have foreseen. Lizzie's death set off a wave of protracted riots all over Night City, and Tyger Claws' members and businesses became the main targets of the violence. Those events cemented Elizabeth Borden as a symbol of defiance against gangers' lawlessness and brutality. Her ideological successors commemorated her by rebuilding her place, naming it "Lizzie's Bar," and forming a gang that brought together those who felt threatened and oppressed, especially among sex workers and sexual minorities.

Philosophy and Structure
Folk went ballistic. Girls, pimps, outcasts - the whole freakshow. It's how the Mox got started.
– Susie "Q", Cyberpunk 2077

The Moxes do not have strict hierarchy. Nevertheless they are a gang, and regardless of the fact that its members refer to themselves as "those who protect working girls and guys" from violence and abuse, they demand substantial fee from their charges. They also run several smaller brothels where they profit from prostitution.[2]

Source of Income
Most of the Moxes' income is generated by Lizzie's Bar, which is now an exclusive braindance club. They do not control any contiguous portion of Night City, focusing instead on protecting their facilities, members, and sex workers who operate in the vicinity of Lizzie's Bar. As long as they are left to their business, they do not actively seek confrontation with other gangs, although have tense relations with the Tyger Claws, who continue to test their patience and combat capabilities.[2]

The youngest established gang in Night City. Its beginnings date back to 2067 when the murder of a sex worker sparked riots that lasted days. The gang formed out of the protesters attracted many others to its ranks for years after.

The Mox is a motley crew of current and former sex workers, punks, freaks and all kinds of outcasts. The gang's main headquarters is Lizzie's Bar, a braindance club that serves as the Mox's main source of income.

The gang's aesthetic is characterized by aggressive kitsch, loud colors, plastic and latex.[4]

The Tyger Claws (虎鉤衆) are a Japanese gang that can be found in Night City.
The Tyger Claws are ruthless territorial gang based in Japantown. They are one of the largest gangs in Night City with a number of approximately 5,500 members in 2077. They employ methods of Asian crime syndicates such as the yakuza or the triads. The gang is predominantly Asian and their primary goal is to maintain control over their own territory and occasionally annex other gangs' businesses. Tyger foot soldiers are easily recognized by their Asian luminous tattoos, fast street bikes, katanas, and tantos. Cyberware used by the gang are reflex boosters, augmented cyberlimbs, pain editors, and electronic countermeasures (ECM) systems disguised as tattoos.[1]
2020
Formed in 2020, the 'Tyger's Claw' was a small defensive combat gang who claimed turf in the original Japantown, and the residential community surrounding it. Generally the gang was not drawn to cyberware, preferring to rely on martial arts, traditional Japanese weapons, and enhanced reflexes. It was rumored that they were backed financially by Arasaka.[2]

2045
After the Fourth Corporate War, Tyger's Claw changed their name to the Tyger Claws. By 2045, they had broken away from Arasaka, and their goal was to protect the Asian community of Night City. The gang had a significant role in rebuilding the Old Japantown district, continued to have killer martial arts and enhanced reflexes, and had become known for their fast bikes.[3] They were slowly moving into the Watson Development area.

2077
By 2077, the gang had changed very little: their fixation on motorcycles for transportation continued, and they more regularly used cyberware, with the stipulation of having their own version of the Smart Link. From their small humble beginnings, they had become one of the largest gangs in the city.

Philosophy and Structure
The business strategy of the Tyger Claws is similar to the Yakuza. Crossing the lowest level member can cause a quick and violent reaction from the entire gang, but if they get what they want everything should be fine.

The top brass of the Claws believe business is preferable to war in the long run, but many of the rank-and-file gangers are sadistic brutes prone to violence. Abduction, torture, sexual assault, and cruel or unusual killings are just a few examples of their depravity. It is not uncommon for young, brash, or drunk Tygers to undermine the gang's ideologies by abusing their status on their turf, harassing outsiders, and provoking fights. This behavior would be considered dishonorable by their crime bosses, but an outsider reacting to ganger's behavior in kind will rarely go unpunished.

Most people outside of the gang's ranks who are provoked wisely avoid direct confrontation with Tygers - unless they have connections with high-ranking members of the gang.[1]

Sources of Income
Japantown is Night City's lead nightlife district and the Tygers control a significant portion of it. They own more businesses in Night City than any other gang: bars, restaurants, braindance clubs, brothels, and casinos. Many of these businesses are registered as legal businesses, but act as fronts for illegal operations and money laundering.

The gang makes most of its money from human trafficking and prostitution. The Tyger Claws also make money from manufacturing and distributing drugs, most notably "glitter". Tygers also hire themselves out for hit jobs.

The gang also has corporate connections who visit their establishments to blow off steam and have fun. The Claws have especially close ties to Arasaka upper management, who outsource them side-jobs, paying them with cybertechnology and military-grade automatic weapons.[1]

Database Entry (2077)
TYGER CLAWS
Tyger Claws
Night City is a melting pot of cultures and ethnicities, though when it comes to its Asian demographic, the Chinese and Japanese influence is unmistakable – as are the Tyger Claws.

As a gang the Tyger Claws are well-organized, efficient and savvy – but also unpredictable. Their business decisions are purely rational, but when it comes to their enemies or a disloyal gang member, their methods can be shocking.

The Tyger Claws mainly operate out of Japantown, Little China, Kabuki and Charter Hill. Their main source of income are nightclubs, casinos, and braindance bars. Night Citizens love to have a good time – no other gang knows how to capitalize on that better than the Tygers.[4]

The Valentinos (Valentino's) are one of the many gangs in Night City appearing in Cyberpunk 2020 and Cyberpunk 2077.
During the 2020s, the Valentinos were a posergang dedicated to seducing the most attractive women in Night City. The more unobtainable she appeared to be, the more attractive a target she was. They did not maintain any territory, and had no goals outside of seducing sleeping with females They were generally harmless to anyone except the husbands and boyfriends of very attractive women in the city. Four times a year they met to compare conquests.[2]

By 2077, this had changed dramatically. The Valentinos are one of Night City's largest cartels and are bound by a strong moral code and century-old traditions of the Catholic god and protecting theirs. This protection does not cover any ethnic or religious group, simply those that came up in Heywood alongside them. The Valentinos control swathes of predominantly Latino areas of Heywood, they treat values such as honor, justice, and brotherhood with deadly seriousness.[3]

The Valentinos have altered the structure of the gang by turning into a mostly Latino gang, most members are but they do not have to be Latino.[4] The gang have dropped the apostrophe and are simply known as the Valentiinos.

V's interactions with the Valentinos will be friendly and hostile. There are those who don't care who V is and will shoot on sight and those who want to toast to Jackie and treat V like family.

Between parties, parades, drag races and way, way too much drinking, the Valentinos hang around the barrio under the watchful eyes of Santa Muerte.

Arasaka worked with José Luis in an attempt to frame Militech for assaulting an Arasaka facility.
The Valentinos are one of the largest gangs in Night City with a membership of about 6,000. Strictly territorial they operate in the vast impoverished Latino barrios in Heywood, The Glen, and Vista del Rey, where they are strongly rooted in the local communities. They are representatives of the Chicano culture of Night City and have cultivated those traditions for more than a century.

Valentinos openly display their gang tattoos and gold jewelry with religious motifs, the Santa Muerte and Jesus Malverde being the most popular and recognizable. They also have a taste for colorful clothes, pimped out lowriders, and silver and gold-plated guns. Cyberware used by the gang include reflex boosters, autoloaders, and augmented cyberlimbs.[1]

Philosophy and Structure
I gotta give style points to the Valentinos. They have a punishment for every occasion.
– NCPD detective River Ward, [citation needed]

The majority of Valentino members are of Mexican heritage, but other races and ethnic groups are welcome to join. Members tend to integrate quickly, adopting Chicano culture and celebrating various Mexican holidays and customs like Dia de Los Muertos, Quinceañeras, Samana Santa, or Dia de Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe.

This sense of common heritage or at least shared customs binds the gang with the local people to form one big family. The community's loyalty protects the gang members, which makes NCPD and corporate infiltrations into the gang almost impossible. In return, the Valentinos protect the whole neighborhood. It's for these reasons that betraying one's gang is the most heinous crime a Valentino can commit, and is usually punished with a particularly gruesome death.

On the other hand, Valentinos who die fighting other gangs, police, or corporate enforcers are often remembered as saints and martyrs. These people are commemorated as in song and depicted on giant murals. This memorial street art functions as religious iconography, complete with written descriptions of the saint's glorious deeds.[1]

Source of Income
The Valentinos own many legitimate businesses such as restaurants, auto shops, and nightclubs, but they also operate braindance studios, sports-betting parlors, and local construction companies. Any of these could be used as a stage for criminal activity: as meeting places, money-laundering operations, or illegal chop shops for stolen vehicles.

Their main sources of income are gun smuggling, car theft, drug trafficking, robbery, burglary, hit jobs (including assault or murder), prostitution, and illegal modification of weapons and vehicles.[1]

Database Entry (2077)
VALENTINOS
Valentinos
Loud vests, flashy gold cyberware, heavy jewellery, tattoos of Santa Muerte and Jesus Malaverde – you'd have a hard time mistaking a Valentino when you saw one. Inspired by Chicano culture, their expressive style makes them seem like something straight out of a Mexican barrio. But if you look closer, you'll see anyone can join the gang, no matter their background or ethnicity.

The Valentinos are strictly territorial, operating in Heywood. They're tied to the local community by nearly familial bonds of friendship – and by biz. The Valentinos run completely legal businesses like restaurants, nightclubs and auto shops, but all are fronts for their other, dirtier biz of money laundering, smuggling stolen vehicles or guns, human trafficking and gang warfare.

The Valentinos' friendship is priceless – and it will follow you to the grave. So you might want to think twice before riding with them.[5]

The Voodoo Boys are one of the many gangs in Night City in the Cyberpunk universe.
2020
In the 2000s, the Voodoo Boys started as a terrorist gang of drug dealers. They were engaged in weird magic rituals, and deal non-synthetic drugs to students near the University. Sadistic and pitiless, they will kill, torture, and rape for any or no reason at all. Victims would sometimes be warned with chicken blood and feathers on their doorstep. Their motives and practices were inconstant. Mutilating and maiming victims was common, as was dissecting their body parts for rituals or to inspire terror.

Their nihilism and drug use was attractive to some university students. These students were sometimes let into the gang, but they are never considered real members. The gang exploited them as cannon fodder for low level crimes, or milked them for funds from their family at home.

No outsider had ever successfully infiltrated the gang. They had no fixed headquarters or crash pads. The location and time for the next meeting was chosen at the end of each meeting. At least two high profile medias died while trying to cover the gang for a news story. They were considered a priority for the NCPD, violent and dangerous. The terror they inspired was successful in keeping the local merchants quiet and uncooperative with the police.

They were most often found at Hababas, an ex-biker bar. This was where most of their drugs were dealt. Despite the biosculpting, tattoos, feather implants, and bones through their noses and ears, most members of the gang started as average white boys. Most were male, though female members existed as well. The females were often much worse, as they had twice as much to prove as the males.[1]
2040s - 2060s
The Voodoo Boys started as a terrorist gang with ritual magic overtones, feeding their bizarre tastes by dealing primarily non-synthetic drugs. However over the decades the gang saw major changes, as real Haitians and other refugees from the decimated Dominican Republic started to move into Night City. These refugees had taken offense with the Voodoo Boys and the started maiming victims and dissecting the dead with machetes, leaving body parts as warnings to others who challenged them. In 2045, the Voodoo Boys began a reorganization of the gang. The gang became comprised of voodoo priests and priestesses, the prominent caste in the Creole culture of the Haitian diaspora.

In 2062, climate change wiped Haiti off the face of the earth and initiated a new chapter of the Voodoo Boys' history. The gang became the self-appointed guardians of Haitian refugees' interests and safety in the Pacifica combat zone. The Voodoo Boys became more focused on netrunning and began probing the Blackwall in hope of making contact the rogue intelligent systems beyond the barrier.

2077
In 2077, the Voodoo Boys are an enigmatic gang from Pacifica, made up of netrunners devoted to uncovering the secrets of the Old Net and behind the Blackwall. They're also edgerunners: breaking every rule there is to break, and programming viruses that can freeze neural networks.[2]

In contrast to their previous iteration, the Voodoo Boys appear to be a Haitian gang that is heavily involved with the large Haitian community in Pacifica that settled the district in the 2060s, after a natural disaster decimated their home country.

They are led by Brigitte and her second in-command, Placide. They have formed a rivalry with a Boostergang known as the Animals.

Depending on the actions chosen during I Walk the Line and Transmission, the Voodoo Boys can either be wiped out, or would have traveled beyond the Blackwall with the aid of Alt Cunningham, disappearing from public view.[3]
Overview
A mysterious gang from Pacifica with a dark reputation for their netrunning skills and their mystical voodoo flavor. Presumed to be entirely consist of members with Haitian blood, the Voodoo Boys are are exclusive, secretive, and distrustful of outsiders. The gang was originally comprised of voodoo priests and priestesses, the prominent caste in the Creole culture of the Haitian diaspora. In 2062, climate change wiped Haiti off the face of the earth and initiated a new chapter of the Voodoo Boys' history. The gang became the self-appointed guardians of Haitian refugees' interests and safety in the Pacifica combat zone.

Most Voodoo Boys are netrunners, so cooling suits and neural implants are common elements of a member's outfit complemented with "voodoo-flavored" elements like dreadlocks, tattoos, and the bones and skulls of small birds and rodents worn as charms. Cyberware used by the gang include cyberdecks and neural links.[4]

Philosophy and Structure
For them, Pacifica's just Haiti 2.0. Their own island, cut off from the rest of the city.
– Johnny Silverhand, [citation needed]

Due to the homogenous nature of the Creole diaspora in the Pacifica, coupled with the lack of police forces in the district, it is difficult to determine the Voodoo Boys' numbers, structure, or even goals. It is widely known that the gang is determined to uncover the secrets of the Old Net, and it's commonly believed that they probe the Blackwall in hope of making contact the rogue intelligent systems beyond the barrier. These attempts have drawn the attention and enmity of NetWatch, who are interested tracking and dispatching rogue netrunners and self aware ISs.

It is unknown to what extent, if any, the Voodoo Boys are connected with actual voodoo religious practices in the Haitian diaspora of Pacifica.[4]

Source of Income
The gang's primary source of income involves hacking databanks and accounts within various corporations in search of restricted and top-secret data. They persistently violate NetWatch laws and regulations, especially in regard to contact with ISs. The Voodoo Boys also hire themselves out as mercenary netrunners for private contractors who are interested in hit-and-run netrunning operations or exploring any ruined parts of the Old Net.

Other sources of income are hard to verify, but theft of virtual currency and information brokering are probably among them.[4]

Database Entry (2077)
VOODOO BOYS
Voodoo Boys
A mysterious gang of netrunners based in Pacifica. The Voodoo Boys uphold the district's independence and act as the leaders of the area's predominantly Haitian community. Ominous rumors circulate about the gang – those who know the most about them are netrunners from Night City (at the very least they can recognize a Voodoo Boys virus when it hits their system) and NetWatch agents, who for years have been trying to eliminate them – unsuccessfully, of course.[5]

Hanako Arasaka is the third child and only daughter to Saburo.[2] Hanako is a skilled, self-taught Netrunner and the head of the Kiji Faction of the Arasaka Corporation.[3][4] She is loved by many people and often described as sweet and beautiful in the eyes of many Arasaka employees. Hanako is an intelligent woman who didn't agree with her father's ambitions and had her own agenda she planned to follow. Despite knowing what her father's wishes entailed with her, she still loved and didn't want to displease him.[5]
Her relationship with her brother Yorinobu is one of great importance to her. Through her strong and calm demeanor she is able to command and lead with great pride for her work. Hanako became the figurehead and CEO of the Corporation. Although her digital projects were what drove her, Hanako was the only one who understood Alt's work with the Soulkiller.

Saburo Arasaka , also known as the Emperor, went from being an Imperial Japanese Navy Air Service Pilot to the corporate God of the 21st century. Born in Tokyo, Japan he made the Arasaka Corporation into one of the largest corporations of the world. Saburo is proud, honorable and, like the true Samurai Shogun he claims to be, he's power hungry.[3] Although he is ancient and physically decrepit, Saburo Arasaka remains the genius he always was in his younger years. Despite his age, Saburo never gave up his control over Arasaka. When his eldest son, Kei, became the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, Saburo remained the chairman of the board and the true puppeteer behind all the major corporate decisions.[3]

Saburo, after decades of building up the Arasaka Corporation, focused his efforts towards bioengineering and mind preserving technology. He even made a copy of his person into an engram in Mikoshi at the Arasaka Headquarters in Tokyo. At the age of 158, he still reigned at the top of Arasaka in the year 2077, having built Arasaka into a great empire in his generation. He's proud, honorable, ruthless and more hungry for power than ever.[4]

Yorinobu Arasaka is the second son to Saburo Arasaka and first son to Michiko Arasaka, and rebellious bosozoku leader of the Steel Dragons as well as close affiliate of Iron Lotus. Although a sworn bosozoku leader rockerboy, he eventually became the heir to the Arasaka empire after the death of his elder brother Kei. Yorinobu disagreed with everything his father set out to accomplished, and abandoned everything because of it. He is passionate, caring, and determined more than anything else.

Yorinobu is the charismatic counter to Johnny Silverhand in Tokyo (though he does not play in a band). He was known to rally up the Japanese public to rebel against the corporate overlords. Yorinobu still cared for his sister Hanako and would frequently speak with her behind their father's back, he swore one day to save her. In 2077, Yorinobu still rebels against his father, but has not seen him in decades. However he soon realized that the corporate giant's power was impossible to defeat. At least from the outside.

Coach Fred is a character in Cyberpunk 2077. During his childhood, Fred would stay inside a lot and watch television. His favourite thing to see on television were the Cirrus Cola commercials featuring an eagle with the name Beaker, who was sort of a superhero bird.

He was bullied at school, but stood up to his bullies after having enough and felt like Beaker after doing so.[1]

He is currently a retired boxer who hangs out in V's apartment complex in Little China, Watson.

He offers to be V's agent and gives info about fights in different parts of the city. Winning them all leads to a championship match.

Claire Russell is a bartender at the Afterlife in Cyberpunk 2077. Claire was a former Militech engineer before eventually quitting and opening her own autoshop in Arroyo. Here she worked on various vehicles and eventually came up with her own called "Beast". At the same point, she took a night job as a bartender for the infamous Afterlife club. She was very friendly with both staff and customers, and even memorized their drinks. She was also responsible for naming much of the drinks on the menu after solo legends of Night City. These drinks were usually the personal choices of the people who ordered them.

At one point in her past, Claire was friends with, and later married a man named Dean Russell. Dean supported Claire through her transition from male to female. Dean also had a love for street racing, with Claire joining him in the many races he took part in, with Dean driving and Claire handling the shooting. However, during the 2076 championship race against an old corpo rival, Peter Sampson, the couple got into an accident and Dean was killed. Despite everyone following the rules of the game, Claire became distraught over losing Dean and blamed Peter for her husband's death, vowing to take him out in hopes that it would bring her some peace.[1]

Kirk Sawyer is a small-time Fixer who operates out of Heywood. He only appears if V has a Streetkid background.Kirk arrived at Night City one day, and soon was able to get a home in Pacifica. Not long afterwards, he began to work as a fixer, often visting the El Coyote Cojo bar in The Glen. To be notorious so people feared and respected him, Kirk claimed the drug cartels were in his favor, keeping many under his thumb with this threat looming over them. Around this time he worked with V and other Mercs, earning some reputation in the process.

Pepe Najarro is a bartender working in El Coyote Cojo bar in Heywood.Pepe can be found working behind the bar, often double shifts without break at the most prominent local club, and he is fast to admit that he does it for his family. Despite putting all the extra hours in, he still has trouble paying off Kirk, a loan shark and aspiring fixer of the Heywood district.

Further down the road, V may revisit Pepe and provide their services for a taste of classical detective work regarding the private life of his wife, Cynthia. Due to her behaviour, lying about her whereabouts, followed by their child looking nothing like either of them, Pepe suspects a story as old as time - cheating. But, having no proof, he decides to hire someone he can rely on.

Depending on the decisions V makes through the concluding dialogue, they might affect the state of the Najarros' marriage, although this will solely reflect in individual holo calls received from the couple.

Sebastian Ibarra, also known as Padre, is a Fixer in Cyberpunk 2077.Padre is a former priest of the Valentinos, whom converted to a more noble calling after witnessing the bloodbath in Moto Cielo. He highly respected and dangerous man that operates out of The Glen, Heywood.Real name - Sebastian Ibarra. Formerly a priest in the Valentinos, but after the bloodbath in Moto Cielo he converted to a more noble calling - that of the fixer. He started out by lining up jobs exclusively for his people from Heywood and the Valentinos - later he even shook hands with the likes of 6th Street. Who knows, maybe it's because he softened up in his old age, or maybe it's because all gangs are equal in the eyes of God.

Padre does things according to his own code of honor. He doesn't support any particular group or gang - his interests lie in maintaining the delicate balance of power in Night City.