Johnny Silverhand
They say you can become a legendary rockerboy without all the sex and drugs, the manic depression, run-ins with the law and one toxic relationship after another. But Johnny Silverhand's old school.

Frontman for Samurai, charismatic visionary, rebel with a cause, sworn enemy of corporations (but especially Arasaka) and the mind behind the cult singles "Chippin' In" and "Never Fade Away" - currently residing in V's brain as a digitized tenant.

Silverhand met his demise during the attack on Arasaka Tower after getting shot by Adam Smasher and subsequently flatlined by Soulkiller. But some rockerboys never really die. Point in case - Silverhand's personality construct was kept in Arasaka's labs for decades before it landed on a prototype biochip call the Relic, which - following a series of unexpected events - ended up in V's brain. If you think spending eternity in a cyberspace prison is worse than sharing your headspace with a complete stranger, you'd be dead wrong. For an egomaniac and narcissist like Johnny, it's a living hell.

Johnny Silverhand, born Robert John Linder, was a famous influential rockerboy and the lead singer of the band Samurai before its breakup in 2008.[4] A military veteran who defined the rockerboy movement to what it is today, he was the most prominent figure that fought against the corrupted NUSA government and megacorporations, often being described as a terrorist. Despite being charismatic and quite the charmer Johnny is also known to be irrational, impulsive, and a manipulator.

Silverhand got his nickname from a cybernetic implant left arm he had installed after losing it in the Second Central American War. One of the early (and most probable) victims of cyberpsychosis, he then became very temperamental and "on the edge". He was described as driven by "dedication and ambitions, but at the end of the day he doesn't care much for the people around him as long as they are used to accomplish his goals" in one interview.

Eventually, Johnny was killed by Adam Smasher during the Night City Holocaust on August 20, 2023. However, his consciousness was engrammed into the Relic prior to cessation of his bodily functions after their initial conservation sometime after 2038. The engram is not exactly his consciousness, though, because it has a programming of replicating itself in the host like a virus, instead of assuring Johnny's survival.