Johnny Silverhand, born Robert John Linder,[3] was a famous influential rockerboy and the lead singer of the band Samurai before its breakup in 2008.[4] A military veteran who defined the rockerboy movement to what it is today, he was the most prominent figure that fought against the corrupted NUSA government and megacorporations, often being described as a terrorist. Despite being charismatic and quite the charmer Johnny is also known to be irrational, impulsive, and a manipulator.[5]

Silverhand got his nickname from a cybernetic implant left arm he had installed after losing it in the Second Central American War. One of the early (and most probable) victims of cyberpsychosis, he then became very temperamental and "on the edge". He was described as driven by "dedication and ambitions, but at the end of the day he doesn't care much for the people around him as long as they are used to accomplish his goals" in one interview.[6]

Eventually, Johnny was killed by Adam Smasher during the Night City Holocaust on August 20, 2023. However, his consciousness was engrammed into the Relic prior to cessation of his bodily functions after their initial conservation sometime after 2038. The engram is not exactly his consciousness, though, because it has a programming of replicating itself in the host like a virus, instead of assuring Johnny's survival.

Robert John Linder was born in College Station, Texas, on November 16th, 1988.[1][7] He enlisted into the military as a teenager, lying about his real age,[8] and it didn't take long to see some action. John was sent to Nicaragua to participate in the Second Conflict of 2003. While in in the war, John's life was saved by a friend who died protecting him. The conflict was devastating, as the war was run by a corrupt and manipulative government. When their secrets were exposed, however, many of the American soldiers dropped their banners as they fought back by deserting the military. The government used its influence to create a powerful propaganda campaign to make the American public hate deserters.

John was one of the men who decided he wouldn't fight in the corrupt war that ultimately led to him losing his arm and a friend. He left for Night City and stayed at a hotel for a whole month.[9] The military and the war had changed his life forever. He changed his name to Johnny Silverhand, his last name representing the cybernetic arm that had replaced his left arm.[10] Johnny began his mission of rebellion to expose corruption by starting a rock band that would eventually be known as Samurai.[3][5] He started this band with his friend Kerry Eurodyne, originally only playing in backstreet clubs. Their first ever gig was in the Red Dirt, a small bar in Night City. At some point in 2003, while playing in a bar called Rainbow Cadenza, a producer by name of Jack Masters discovered them and signed them up with Universal Recording. Samurai was comprised of the co-founders Johnny and Kerry as well as Denny, Nancy, and Henry.

His music became revolutionary, starting the rockerboy movement and becoming an overnight sensation. He, along with Samurai itself, rose to the top of the US charts in record time. Despite this success, however, Samurai struggled as personal issues made it to the surface. During this time, the keyboard player Nancy was in an abusive relationship. She reached a point where she couldn't take it anymore, and pushed her boyfriend out of a window. After the NCPD discovered the body, she was arrested and taken to prison. Without her, Samurai struggled and finally split up in 2008.[5]

Johnny Silverhand was still one of the most popular musicians at the time. He planned to use his star power to begin a solo career and continue to push his anti-corporation and anti-government message. DBS Music wanted to sign him so desperately that they blackmailed him, threatening to reveal his true identity, as a deserter of the Second Central American Conflict.

Instead, Johnny Silverhand signed with Universal Music again, and released an entire album called 'SINS of Your Brothers' admitting that he was a deserter, and revealing all the terrible things the government had ordered. The album was wildly successful, and changed public perception of what it meant to be a deserter.[5]

In the 2010s, Johnny continued his rebellious campaign, this time in Japantown, during his famous free benefit concert to bring attention to brutal methods the NCPD used to quell the Homeless Riots.[11]

Rogue's relationship with Johnny ended at some point in 2011,[12] after she found out about Johnny cheating on her.[13]

After giving a concert at The Hammer on August 4th in 2013, Johnny went on a walk with Alt Cunningham, his former girlfriend, but were ambushed by thugs hired by Arasaka. The thugs injured Johnny, kidnapped Alt and took off in a van. Arasaka wanted her to develop a new variant of the Soulkiller software she had written for ITS.[13]

On the 5th of August in 2013, Johnny gathered a strike team, consisting of his ex-girlfriend Rogue, media reporter Thompson, and a nomad named Santiago, to infiltrate Arasaka Tower in Night City, so that they could save Alt. As a diversion, he called in a favor from all the members of his old band. Samurai gathered together and performed an entirely free show. The show was held right in front of Arasaka Tower. This led to a riot on the tower as troops were called in to control the situation. In a panic reaction, Toshiro used Soulkiller on Alt while the assault took place and trapped her inside the Arasaka mainframe.[citation needed] Johnny and his team infiltrated the Tower, while Alt was trapped in the mainframe trying to find a way back to her body.

The team made it to the room where Toshiro, Akira, and Alt were. Johnny looked over Alt's body and presumed her dead moments after killing Toshiro out of anger. He turned to gather up Alt's still warm body in his arms off the couch disconnecting her. Behind the wall of monitors, a disembodied Alt screamed to him, but Johnny didn't hear her.[12][14]

After the assault on the Tower, Johnny left Night City for a period of time with Santiago and join the Aldecaldos nomad community.[15] Little was known of what he did during this time.[16]

Around 2015, a firefighter by the name of Samantha Stevens saved Silverhand from a fire that occurred in one of his studios.

In 2023, Johnny and Morgan Blackhand, alongside Rogue Amendiares, Shaitan, Thompson, Spider Murphy and others, led a Militech assault team on the Arasaka Towers in Night City, with the intention of ending the Fourth Corporate War by destroying the tower with a mini nuke.[20] Johnny had another reason for going back to the Arasaka offices however; he wanted to find Alt Cunningham, but there were more than a few obstacles in the way. Johnny's team was pinned down by the Arasaka forces and Adam Smasher in the tower labs after successfully liberating Alt. During these events, Johnny, who had been knocked off by the initial attack, managed to stand up. With a Militech SMG on one hand and his Malorian on the other, the rockerboy shouted and provoked Smasher, emptying his guns on the borg. Smasher turned around, surprised at the audacity of the man, and then fired his autoshotgun at him, cutting Silverhand in half.[20][21] Spider Murphy tried to reach Johnny but she was stopped by Rogue, who told her he was gone. Spider instead reached inside her jacket and pulled out a data slug Alt had downloaded to her a long time ago. Whispering she was sorry to Johnny, Spider inserted the chip into the back of the dying rocker's skull. She then tried to reach for her data suitcase, but soon realized it had been destroyed in the crossfire. Spider then left with Rogue, knowing Johnny and Bartmoss would one day be avenged.[21]

Silverhand's engram in 2077 has a different tale of the events, in which he escaped the fight with Smasher and attempted to reach the helicopter where Rogue was waiting, yet again being stopped by Smasher. Johnny was presumed dead, gunned down by the borg. The dying Johnny was recovered by Arasaka and interrogated by the corp security and later by Saburo Arasaka himself with a techie. He would be subjected to the Soulkiller program, his consciousness scanned and stored on an engram; his physical body dying and was allegedly buried in concrete in the derelict oil fields just outside of Night City.[22]

Despite there being no body to intern, a niche was dedicated to his memory at the North Oak Columbarium. His epitaph, which uses his real name, reads: "Robert John Linder: Son of a bitch who never gave up. A legend among legends."

Not long after the 2023 Night City Holocaust, a Silverhand fan firefighter, Samantha Stevens, accessed the Hot Zone by a request from Angel. Samantha recovered a non-detonated mini-nuke from the a wrecked bunker of the destroyed towers, and tossed its contents into Del Coronado Bay. After finding Johnny's body among the ruins, she put it into the nuke crate to preserve it. At some point she also recovered some of Johnny's possessions, including one of his Malorian 3516 and his Porsche. She hid all of these items, including the bomb case, in her garage somewhere in Night City. She protected and took care of them for years.

In 2038, after encountering a group of edgerunners who were trying to find an unreleased song of Silverhand, Samantha gave them the task to transport the crate containing Johnny's body to Los Alamos Labs in New Mexico. Before they left, Samantha took aside one of them, a mercenary known as Zara, and gave her the Malorian she had found in a wrapped package and told her that the owner was never going to use it again, adding that she seemed the right person to carry it for him.

The group of edgerunners managed to deliver the create to Angel in New Mexico. After opening the crate, she whispered "Hello, my love."

At some point prior to 2077, Johnny's engram was placed onto a prototype version of the Relic. The device was stolen by Yorinobu Arasaka and stored within a secure vault in Konpeki Plaza, in an attempt to bring his father out into public. Johnny's engram and its location were uncovered by the Voodoo Boys, who planned to steal it to bring them into contact with Alt and bypass the Blackwall. The group hired Evelyn Parker to braindance the room for security measures and its location, though she decided to betray them and steal the device for herself. Through fixer Dexter DeShawn, Parker hired mercenaries V and Jackie Welles to steal the Relic from the room. The two mercenaries were able to steal it, though the Relic's storage case was damaged during their escape. To ensure it survived, a fatally wounded Jackie carried it in his shard slot and placed it into V's before he died.

Due to its presence when they were murdered, Johnny's engram finally awoke when the Relic revived an injured V. It then began uploading it onto the brain and replacing the mercenary's consciousness, as it was programmed to. Initially attacking them in a bid to take over, Johnny eventually decided to cooperate with V to ensure he survived or could be retrieved from their head. He appeared on multiple occasions to either provide advice to V or give his thoughts on their situations. The Relic also provided V glimpses of Johnny's memories, including his attempt to save Alt in 2013 and his final attack on Arasaka Tower. Johnny's engram also attempted to take control of the body on multiple occasions.

Johnny Silverhand, after leaving the military, became determined to speak the truth of the corruption and oppression of multiple entities that held a position of power in the world. Johnny always harbored hatred for the world around him; Night City, the NUSA, the police, corps, and mostly Arasaka - his music became an extension of his feelings for the public to hear, though none of it ever made him feel better. He made it his goal to spark rebellion in people to not be blind and fight up against the oppressors as he believed. Johnny concentrated most of his anger to the Arasaka Corporation, and in his life he managed two assaults' of the Arasaka Tower of Night City. Arasaka became an obsession for him, so much so his friends would criticize him for his determination. To him, Arasaka represented corporate colonialism at it's worst, as the Megacorps would take consume the land and take over people's lives, he feared that humanity lost it's freedom.

Johnny lacked empathy for most people; if he needed to kill to prove his point, he would do it without hesitation. Often referred to as a terrorists and anarchist, he still never deviated from his goal of rebellion. Johnny Silverhand believed dying as a legend would spark rebellion in others, and that taking control meant doing whatever it took to bring down the Megacorps.

Rogue Amendiares was a well-known solo during the 2010s in Night City, who became owner of the famous Afterlife nightclub in the Time of the Red, and was widely considered the city's best fixer by 2077.

Rogue was a rebellious teen, knew stiff hierarchy of gang life was not for her and set out on her own, to become a solo. She was a new and successful mercenary in Night City. Rogue also began a relationship with hit rockerboy sensation Johnny Silverhand. Rogue on occasion asked Johnny if they could visit a drive-in theatre on a date, which went largely ignored.

Her relationship with Johnny ended at some point in 2011,[5] after Rogue found out about Johnny cheating on her.[6]

In 2013, Rogue and her partner, Nomad Santiago were mercs, being reputed to be the best at the time. During a meeting between the two of them in the Atlantis Club, Johnny Silverhand interrupted them by entering the room to ask for their help in raiding Arasaka to save his girlfriend Alt Cunningham. While Rogue was still held a sour spot for Johnny, she ended up agreeing along with Santiago for nothing more than to give it to the corporations. The two participated in Silverhand's raid on Arasaka Tower to recover Alt and the Soulkiller program alongside a media known as Thompson, but the raid ended in failure as Alt was separated from her body, trapped in the Arasaka mainframe.[5]

During the Fourth Corporate War, Rogue participated in another Arasaka raid that would come to be known as the Night City Holocaust. She,alongside Spider Murphy, Shaitan, and Johnny Silverhand, raided the Arasaka Tower from the roof to leave a mini nuke within. However Johnny had additional plans and asked Rogue to accompany him, she refused and only promised to wait longer for him to escape. After attempting to bring Johnny onboard the chopper, they were intercepted by Adam Smasher, who fired upon the chopper with a heavy machine gun; Rogue was forced to leave Johnny behind as the nuclear bomb would soon detonate.

V, an alias for Vincent is a mercenary. V grew up in the Heywood District of Night City, raised by the gangs. Though they initially left for Atlanta two years ago, they returned to Night City after realizing it was not going to work out.

Misty Olszewski is a new age spiritualist and the owner of Misty's Esoterica, a store located in Urmland Street, Watson. She is a good friend of Viktor Vektor and V.

While Viktor is a healer of bullet and blade wounds, Misty is a mender of broken spirits. Misty's Esoterica, a small shop in front of a ripperdoc clinic, is stocked with an assortment of aura-cleansing incense sticks, yarrow stems, Tibetan "Book of the Dead" shards and pendants for good luck. Though Misty gets more costumers than Viktor, this smart and sensitive woman somehow always finds the time to help her friend in difficult moments - at times almost taking on the role of a full-fledged nurse.

Viktor Vektor, or Vik for short, is a ripperdoc in Cyberpunk 2077. His clinic is located behind Misty's store in Little China, Watson. Talented, patient, and professional, Viktor has extended V's credit on a number of occasions, but never complains. Viktor was once a heavyweight boxer in Watson, competing in the Watson Boxing Grand Prix, but eventually came in 2nd place in the finals.[2] He left that life behind, and has come to prefer the relatively straightforward life of a back-alley ripperdoc. He continues to watch boxing matches avidly. His shop sees a steady amount of traffic thanks to a local fixer who insists on outfitting her mercs with the latest implants. He comes to know V and Jackie Welles well over the first six months of their career as mercs.

